# Morning Plenary 1

Uh, let me actually let's us all give a hand to the local organizers.
The staff, uh, carry, uh. Everybody here? Um, they have done they've been working tirelessly to make this work.
So thank you so much. And, Kerry. Please take it away. Is this is this on?
Oh, can you hear me? Great. Okay.
Thank you, everybody, for coming.
Um, I have some intro slides which I had a grand vision for, and you'll see that the effort really drops off rapidly.
And I would love it if you guys took a guess as to where that was. So.
Okay, let's get started. Um.
Well, the title slide is credit to Taylor. Um, from the school.
And so we'll get to that. This one is this. And this.
Okay. All right. So welcome to Chicago. Um, uh, it's a big city.
Many of you have been here before, but I thought it'd be fun to, you know, bring up some fun facts for people.
Um, and this is this was part of the grand vision. Um, we're also known as the Windy City.
The second city and or tri town, you know, depending on where you're hearing about Chicago.
Um, we're known for deep dish Chicago dogs. Don't ask for ketchup on your hot dogs.
Um, architecture is a very big thing. We have a beautiful skyline, a long history of blues and jazz music.
Um, improv is very much a thing if you're an SNL fan.
A lot of SNL people came from Chicago. Um, and the lakefront is really, really wonderful during the summer.
So if you have some time Friday evening or on Saturday, um, that's where I would spend it.
Um, less well known, but still delicious. So if you're going to go into the city, here's some fun things that you could, um, try.
Um, I've got links explaining what all of them are, in case you never heard of it.
Um, and, uh, some neighborhoods which have, uh, really good, uh, really good food to try.
Um, welcome to the University of Chicago again, continuing the, uh, you know, interest in architecture if you've never been on campus.
Um, I really suggest taking some time to walk around. It's a jam packed agenda, but maybe, you know, if you need to clear your head during a break.
There's a lot of beautiful car, Gothic architecture, modern architecture, etc.
Um, we do have a long history, um, and tradition in physics, especially in particle physics.
Um, if you, you know, click on the physics department website,
there's some really nice description of a lot of the people that came through the department.
Um, we, we claim 30 Nobel laureates as our own.
Um, you might quibble as to if some of those people are actually Chicago or someplace else.
Um, and we're very proud to be the home of the first self-sustaining, um, nuclear chain reaction under Enrico Fermi.
And this is, um, a picture of a statue sort of commemorating where that happened.
Um, and we play a central role in nearby labs. Um, in particular Fermi lab in Argonne.
Um, we're really proud of that. Um, and I think that explains a little bit of part of the self-interest we have in bringing a muon collider to the US.
Um, just an hour away at nearby Fermilab. Um, we do have some less distinguished history.
Uh, we're a little bit quirky. We're known for being scrappy and, you know, making things in the garage or our dorm rooms.
Um, and so this is a really funny story that they tell you often if you take a U.
Chicago tour. Um, there's this really elaborate scavenger hunt that undergraduate students do.
Um, every year. And there were two students, um, from physics students who actually built, um, a nuclear breeder reactor, um, in their dorms.
Um, and this was featured, you know, in The New York Times and there's some, some nice stories and, um, magazine articles that describe this.
So it's this is a really fun one to read. If you were going to read anything from these intro slides, I would read this.
Um, and so, you know, given that tradition of building things of, um, particle physics, we're really excited to host USBc.
Um, the second annual meeting. Um, a big goal for this meeting is to really encourage broader participation in the muon collider effort.
Um, the meeting is structured with talks, a poster session.
Um, plenty of breaks so that we can we can talk to familiarize everyone with the current status of the physics,
the accelerator and the detector development. Um, and give you opportunities to discuss ways, um, you can get plugged in and contribute.
Um, the first half of the week, we hosted the US Muon Collider Accelerator School.
Um, and this was I mean, it was just fantastic.
Um, the goal there was really to bridge traditional collider disciplines.
So really bridging an accelerator experiment in theory.
Um, and introduce students to key concepts, um, key accelerator concepts that are necessary for building a muon.
You know, collider, R&D, um, and etc. And this was modeled after US particle accelerator school.
So we had full days of lectures, um, homework sessions.
Uh, so many questions. You cannot leave. Um, it was really impressive.
And so, um, I just I thought this was particularly interesting.
So if you look at the career stage, yes, there are a lot of students.
Um, but we actually had a number of postdocs and professors attending. Us students are trying to learn.
Um, and if you look at their sort of primary discipline, the majority of people were from experiment.
And so this is really great because we want to be growing the accelerator workforce.
And this is kind of a really nice first step towards doing that.
Um, and I, I cannot I'm like bragging on behalf of the students.
They are so many questions despite having, you know, 12 hour days.
Three days, three and a half days in a row. Asking questions all the way up until the end.
9 p.m. last night. Um. The engagement was incredible.
Um, and everybody was really excited. And so I hope that, you know, despite the exhaustion, we can continue that into this meeting here.
And it'll be infectious and contagious for everybody. Um, okay.
Coming to the logistics of the meeting. Um, I think this is where the effort and interest lies dropped off.
Uh, so the useful information. So, uh, the Indico has the latest schedule.
Um, it's got tips for getting around where to find parking.
I mean, everybody made it here, so hopefully that part is good.
Um, but there's additional information about details of the poster sessions.
Um, restaurant suggestions if you want to explore later.
Um, some activities you can do in Chicago on the weekend if you're staying around, etc.
Um, if you have any logistical questions, ask one of the organizers.
Ask the registration, um, desk. Uh, we do have a slack channel on the US on CC slack, if you want to, you know,
be talking to people, asking questions to follow up on talks and things like that.
Um, and if all else fails, you can use this email. Um, and we'll try and sort out any questions you might have.
Um, so we're in the meeting will take place. It's going to be spread across a few buildings.
So we're in the Kristen Center, the Christian Physics Center here.
Um, we will also be going to the Gordon Center for Integrative Science and Michelson Center for physics.
So I'll use PTC and uh, GSIs and MCP.
Um, and then there's also a map of, you know, parking. Um, so, um, plenaries will take place in this room here.
Um, parallels will be spread across, um, this main lecture hall, Maria Gilbert Meyer lecture hall.
There's a smaller lecture hall on the same floor, just sort of around the around the corner.
Um, where, uh, accelerator parallels will take place and theory parallels will take place in MXGp.
So that's, uh, five minute walk from here and you can kind of follow the map.
Um, or there will be plenty of students around to help lead people. Um, breakfast and coffee breaks.
You can get food and coffee from the second floor lounge, which is where we had check in.
Um, and then in terms of, you know, larger meals.
Um, so we'll have lunches and the workshop dinner today in the GCS atrium on the third floor.
Um, we're going to host a poster session during today's lunch break.
Um, I really encourage everybody to, uh, to participate and talk to the students presenting posters.
Um, they've put a lot of effort in. We've seen lots of drafts, you know, throughout the week before people got stuff printed.
Um, it's really useful if you're looking for ways to get involved in the effort.
Uh, and we will have prizes for best posters and poster bingo for attendees to to play.
Um, we're going to have a workshop photo today just before dinner.
Um, and so we'll exit from the south side of this building and kind of walk you over to the steps of the library where we're going to take the photo.
We will also have folks taking pictures throughout the conference, um, and uploading them to a shared Google Drive so everybody will have access.
Please let us know if you, um, would not like to be pictured.
Um, and we have some social media where, um, Usm's the official NCC accounts are posting, um, information about the meeting.
Um, this is a reminder. We have a code of conduct. Uh, and, I mean, I think this is a great community, so there's nothing really to worry about here.
Um, and then this is a detailed agenda for today.
So we we've made it through check in and breakfast. This is the first plenary of the morning.
We'll have a coffee break and a second plenary before lunch and the poster session.
We'll have a parallel session during the afternoon, followed by a coffee break,
an afternoon plenary, the workshop photo, and then the workshop dinner.
Um, I want to thank the logistics staff that made this possible.
So the local organizing committee, in particular, Mary and Ramona, are doing a bang up job.
Um, and you'll see them throughout, uh, the workshop. So.
Um, and a number of the physics staff has also stepped in to help um, and make this possible.
Um, and we also had a number of sponsors, um, from national labs, nearby universities.
Uh, which was really important for enabling support for the school attendees.
Um, nearly 60 pupils lodging, um, for the entire week and their meals.
Um, and offset costs of attending the school for our student, for attending the meeting for students and postdocs.
So this was a really big help as well. Um, so thank you so much for coming.
We really and we we really, really hope you enjoy the meeting. Look.
At this. Two tickets you're attached to before you look.
Uh. Um. Okay. So. It's a 23 question.
Okay. Let's go on the other side.
It works for us. Just. All right, so for our first plenary today,
we have Professor Leanne Tawa from the University of Chicago giving us an
introduction to the physics theory relevant for the Muon Collider initiative.
Okay. Thanks for the invitation. So I'm. Yeah, I'm going to talk about potential beyond Collider.
Uh, from the, uh, theory point of view. Okay.
I think as as a serious the most a question we are asking is not, uh, how to build a collider, but, uh, why am you on Collider?
Why is that useful? So, uh, I wanted to to organize, uh, my thoughts on this topic in this three classes.
Uh, so, as if you're on the committee and what you are going to say, if you are a dreamer, what you are going thinking about.
And I will highlight a few things that the, uh, that you can pursue further if you still looking for more.
So, uh, given the time and the, the, uh, the list of the topic, this is going to sound like a laundry list.
Uh, no matter what I do. And, uh, I apologize for that.
I won't have time to go into details, but, uh, hopefully this is just to give you a lead into various, uh,
uh, interesting topics that if you want to explore further, you are welcome to, uh, talk to me afterwards.
Okay. Um. All right, so, um, the committee, I think that, uh, you have to we have to focus on very basic physics output.
Right. So that, uh, and, uh, the I think the basic physics output for muon collider is, uh, is very clear.
Uh, it's, uh, it's going to higher energies. Right. And, uh, has a, has uh, uh, uh, unprecedented can can reach to a unprecedented luminosity.
And so, uh, therefore this, uh, even without looking at, uh, uh, this very tiny red dot.
I'm sorry. Yeah.
Without uh, uh, looking at any of these, uh, physics, uh uh uh, behind that, uh, even just this red curve should, uh, uh, convince most of us.
Okay. But, uh, maybe that's on a committee. That's not enough.
Right? So you wanted to, uh, talk about a little bit more about specifics.
So the first thing I think you, uh, they wanted to know is that, uh, how does this compare with the previous, uh, colliders?
Uh, all the ones that the, uh, other ones that are in the planning.
So basically, uh, think in the coming decades, we're going to have an ROTC and uh, uh, uh, delivering a lot of data.
And there are also, uh, Higgs factories.
Uh, depends on which version of it and maybe vaguely on the, on the horizon.
Okay. And the muon collider, I think is going to go beyond both of these options.
Okay. In terms of both the the sheer reach and the precision.
Okay. So let's look at the. Uh, let's look at this, uh, in a bit more detail.
So physics program can be very broadly, uh.
Uh, roughly classified into two directions.
One direction is a direct reach for new physics particles.
The other part is the precision. You are going to get two.
And this can be roughly, uh, be, uh, uh, classified into these two axes.
One is the, uh, the mass of the new physics particle you are going to reach.
And this axis, y axis is uh uh, and, uh, uh, coupling between the new physics particle and the, the Standard Model.
Okay. And, uh, to, to classify, uh, to quantify the, uh, the reach in precision.
We also often define something like a deviation from the Standard Model coupling, uh, which I just call it the delta here.
And, uh, roughly speaking, this, uh, deviation will goes like something like the,
the coupling proportional to the coupling of the new physics to the Standard Model,
obviously, and inversely proportional to the, uh, mass of the new physics that you have to integrate out.
Okay. Because if new physics are really, really heavy, they induce no deviation, uh, from the standard model.
Okay. So, um, qualitatively, what you see has covered this region, right?
A region like this in their direct search for new physics.
Right. So roughly speaking, uh, below a TV and, uh, when the coupling to the standard, the model is not too weak.
So I just covered a region like this. Okay. Of course, this is the qualitative.
Okay. Don't take the shape too seriously.
Um, and, uh, on the other hand, the, the precision measurement, uh, at the LHC will get you to a deviation to the Standard model.
Roughly 1%. Okay. Or percentage. Okay.
That's roughly corresponding to a line like this. It will excluding everything uh, above this line.
Okay. So, uh, we haven't seen any deviation yet.
Right? So, uh. And, uh, but the future, for example, for the, uh, the, the target, a good target for the future precision measurement,
such as the Higgs coupling, a future target, a good target, it will be one point a 1% from your precision.
Okay. That's going to become a line like this. Okay.
That's clearly going beyond the arrow. See, this is the basically the physics case for, uh, measuring Higgs coupling.
Really very well. Okay. So that's going to cover a region much beyond what the LHC can do at the same time.
Um, I sorry, a tentative frontier.
If we go to a center of mass, uh, collision energy attentive, you are going to push the direct, uh, reach also up to about ten TB.
This is also going much beyond the as you see. Okay. So of course, the the major selling point of you on Collider in this regard is just very simple.
This is what the both of this is what the muon Collider, uh, going to do.
Okay. So I think this is if you wanted to convince somebody this is the basic physics output,
basically, uh, for the muon collider, they can do both of these things.
They are all big steps into big step, uh, beyond the, the what the current LHC is going to do.
Okay. Yeah, this is just some figures I wish I won't go go through, but that this is just showing you that.
Yes, indeed. If you look at the the reach for direct search, reach for particles and this is going to be,
uh, going up with the center of mass energy of muon colliders.
Okay. Uh, and uh, also, uh, muon collider is also good, uh, as a Higgs factory.
Um, so this is just some basic numbers and the muon collider running at the various energies,
uh, the this this brown color is the how many clicks they are going to produce.
And, uh, and just to, for comparison, for some of the, uh, the lower energy Higgs factories, they are going to produce about a million Higgs.
Okay. So you see that at the muon Collider, a roughly around 260,
your startup going to go produce more hexes with potentials doing better than those, uh, Higgs factories.
And this is, uh, this panned out as, uh, with some studies.
So this is the, the the coupling between the Higgs to Z and W.
Indeed. You see that muon collider running at, uh, uh, 20?
We can actually reach better positions, uh, down to a per mill level.
Okay. That's the reaching the physics target that that I mentioned earlier.
And, uh, higher energy also brought you, uh, additional, uh, benefits.
So the muon collider can, uh, give you a comfortable energy to produce two hexes, for example.
Okay. So that that's, uh, another important process.
And you can this is the number of the Higgs event that you're going to produce.
Right. So you have a very good potential around here running at the especially for example, 1012.
And it's going to, uh, make a very good measurement of the self coupling, for example.
Okay. And there is also additional benefits of a higher energy aiding the, uh, the precision measurement.
The precision measurement is usually you are targeting some, uh, what we call higher dimensional operators.
Right. So some effect of new physics and the those new physics effect will grow at higher energies.
Okay. When you do a collision into higher energies, those new physics,
even though you still not directly producing those new physics, their effect is going to grow.
Well, uh, that's proportional to energy. So the effect will be larger.
So in this sense the higher energy will actually be better. Simply it gives you better sensitivity and, uh, better precision.
So let me just briefly, uh, this is can be demonstrated in many context.
One of the context is to is the top Higgs coupling, for example.
So if, uh, if top Higgs coupling, for example, is modified by this higher dimensional operator,
then the auto t bar cross-section will grow as a function, uh, growth proportional to to energy.
And the this will leads to a larger effect at higher energies.
And and therefore running a collision, the higher energies will actually, uh, give you a better sensitivity to both.
And that leads to a better measurement of the Higgs coupling.
Okay. All right.
So at the higher energies there's also you can also produce a lot of bosons.
Right. So this is uh uh uh for I think for the first time in the, in the history that if we're running some collision, the ten TV,
uh, the Z and the Higgs will effectively become, uh, massless of their their mass is much smaller than the collision energy.
Okay. So and, uh, yeah, there's, uh, there's a there's obviously more physics and the potential can be done with this,
uh, multiple and the Higgs productions. Okay. I think this physics for potential here is still to be fully investigated.
I'll come back to this point a bit briefly later, okay? Okay.
So I think this is all the the raw power, okay.
If you if you want to just quickly demonstrate the raw power of the muon collider, this is a this is what I had in mind that we'll,
we'll we'll say these are the guaranteed, uh, deliverable, uh, physics potentials of, uh, of me on Collider.
Okay. Now you may want it to be to two.
To think about it. Is the mall right. So you wanted to think about what it could be here at MTV, right.
The way we have the potential to reach higher energy. You wanted to think about what could be there.
And let me just give you some of the examples that has been been, uh, well studied.
So first is, uh, is a wimp dark matter.
And uh, so in particular, there is this, uh, simplest class of models of WIMP dark matter where WIMP is just a part of electroweak doublet.
It's like a laptop, but just heavier. Okay. And, uh, or if you're familiar with Susy, this is like either Higgs or, you know, type of dark matter.
Okay, so the benefits of this class of models that is, is very, very predictive.
Okay. There's a the only free parameter in those model is uh, is its mass the mass of the dark matter particle okay.
Therefore it's, it's so predictive it just by requiring that they give you the correct erotic abundance, you can predict its mass.
Okay. That this is the mass has to be this is sometimes sometimes refers to as the target, the mass.
Okay. So if you want to reach to a certain WIMP candidate, you have to be able to, uh,
have the reach that, uh, to, to predict, uh, to, to get to the, these kind of masses.
Okay. This is actually way beyond our reach. Okay. This is a at least in the multi TV range.
Okay. Where this is also precisely the case where, uh, a muon collider can do something.
Okay. Because it runs at the higher energy. Okay.
Uh, broadly speaking, the there are two class of, uh, signals, uh, for dark matter at a muon collider.
One of them is the so-called mono x. So if you're familiar with the searches, this is the this this, uh, there's a very similar story here.
And you basically the pair produces the dark matter particle or its partner and, uh, then then recall you against another hot object.
Okay. That's something uh, so this is, this is more model independent.
And, uh, but the challenge is there are sizable background and also larger systematics, on the other hand,
that this kind of, uh, uh, uh, this, this class of dark matter also features has an interesting feature that,
that it's, uh, that the there's multiple it the dark matter lives inside the multiple multiple it the charged,
uh member of the multiple it and the the the dark matter self has a very small between them.
Has a very small mass pulling. Yeah. And uh, and therefore that if you produced, uh, the charge uh particle, it's semi long lived.
It leads to something called the disappearing track.
And uh, of course this kind of things, it's already quite challenging at RTC and at the muon Collider.
It will be also quite challenging as a detector, uh, trackers and used to be quite close.
And the beam in there will also be beam induced background.
This has been, uh, because this is such an interesting case, this as there was quite a bit of studies on this already.
Okay. The result is that, uh, higher and high energy muon collider is indeed.
It's quite promising in covering at least some of these, uh, these, uh, lower dimensional multiple.
It's. Okay.
Then the next, uh, interesting thing we can do, uh, when going to attend TV is obviously, uh, a better testing of this idea of naturalness.
Okay, this has been with us, uh, for a long time, and, uh, uh, just, uh, the amount of fine tuning, uh, is proportional to the mass of the new power.
New physics particles square. Okay, so ten TV muon collider.
Its reach in new physics is about. Depends on what the particle is.
Uh, depends. Uh, so it's about a 5 to 10 beyond what you see.
Okay. Therefore, just by this simple estimate, it gives you, uh, um, a test,
much better test of the idea of naturalness, approximately 100 times better, uh, than that.
What you see? Okay. Of course, any time you you increase sensitivity, you.
There is a chance they'll making a bigger discovery. That will be a dramatic confirmation of the the idea of naturalness.
Okay. Yeah. So these are just, uh, some very quick, uh uh uh, but also obvious point, right?
We already said that the, uh, muon collider should increase the, uh, the reach of, uh, new physics particle.
Much better. Right. So this is a, for example, you can look for, uh, for example, you wanted to look for top on Earth, right?
So this is, uh, uh, perhaps the most important particle in, uh, in the idea of naturalness.
Right. This is, uh, uh, the reach is a way beyond what you see from me on fighter.
You can reach to up above, uh, about half of the central mass energy.
Okay, so if you're running at a 20 V that reaches about five T.
And, uh. Yeah, I will not go into this in detail.
This is a by asking that if you are going to probe some composite of Higgs models.
Right. So you see that the this this is the curve for muon collider.
So it's a much beyond uh, what they can do. Okay.
And the next thing I wanted to mention about the interesting physics that could happen at the ten TV is some interesting flavor physics.
Okay, so I think the main question for flavor physics is where is the the scale for interesting flavor physics.
Right. So that's the the question I think everybody's mind because it could be anywhere.
Right. So but the the question is of what. Yeah.
What is the the next possible scale that uh, where will we're going to see associated with the, with the flavor of physics.
So there is already quite a bit of experimental constraint on where that scale can be.
Okay. So uh, experimental limit in for more relevant for muon collider are these lepton flavor violations.
All right. So the experimental limit already puts.
Uh so if you want to say if you integrate out some new physics at the scale lambda and you generate
the these flavor violating of operators then depends on the process that you are going to probe.
It can, uh, sets limit on this new physics scale from ten to to 118.
Okay. So this is much beyond a weak scale already.
And that is sometimes this is known as the little hierarchy problem okay.
But remember look the 20 tentative remains a possible, uh, place for for new flavor physics to show up,
even given these, uh, this is, uh, stringent kind of constraint.
And, and the that's, that is obviously a scale that can be probed by, uh, by muon hider, uh, running out of time ten.
So, yeah, I think you'll probably hear more about this from, uh, from Talk by Sam.
But this is a way, uh, this is just showing you that you can directly probe some of these, uh,
flavor violating operators by looking at the mu mu plus mu minus going to a flavor of violating final state.
And you see that? And indeed, you can be sensitive to, uh, tens of TV, uh, new physics scales.
I also wanted to spend a little bit more time on talking about the so so that that if asked
about the flavor and the end of the estimate about the ten TV is a little bit too quick.
Okay. It depends on really where the the flavor violation effect coming in.
Okay. So if for example, if the left town flavor violation comes in at a one loop order, okay.
And which is often the case for weakly coupled the new physics models, um, the new physics mass can actually be lower.
Okay. Then those can be those new physics can be directly searched for at the muon Collider in principle.
Yeah.
For example, in Susy, uh, the flavor violation, uh, for the flavor of violating effect come into one loop and the left hand flavor violation goes by.
Some goes through a loop like this that basically, uh, constraints mutually.
Gamma now constrains the mass of the Susy particle to be greater than two.
Okay. So but this is certainly, uh, was in the realm of the, the reach of muon colliders and, uh, yeah, this is just,
uh, say what I just said and, uh, and the, for example, also for like a CP violation effect for, for,
uh, then if the, uh, if the new physics is valid coming in at a two loop order, for example, for example,
in this famous uh, bars type of uh, uh, processes, then the new physics, uh, scale is again around the 20.
Okay. In principle, this could also be, uh, probed by a ten TV muon collider.
Okay. In this case. Okay. So this is just adding to the already, uh, good.
The motivation is to search for flavor physics, uh, new flavor, that new flavor physics at the muon Collider.
Okay. Now this. There are also many other possibilities, and I won't spend the time to describe any of this because, uh, yeah,
there are many, many studies and, uh, and there are also talks, uh, additional talks in this conference.
Okay. I wanted to move on to my, my, uh, in the last two minutes, I wanted to move on, just mention a few more,
uh, physics opportunities, more physics opportunities that we can still use more, uh, uh, exploration.
Okay. Um, so first of all, is that, as I said, uh, this topic that I already mentioned earlier, that the, uh, at energy,
much bigger than 100 GeV, we would expect that the effect of the electroweak symmetry breaking to be, uh, negligible, to be small.
And the typically we expect this to happen early in the universe when temperature is much higher than the weak scale.
And at the same time, perhaps since muon collider is running at very high energies, this can also show up in the muon collider.
So there is some study on this already. Bye bye bye Rodolfo and Paul.
And uh, and by looking at the the distributions of various, uh, type of sound producing production channels.
Okay, there's additional talk on this, uh, for this conference.
Um, uh, we can also, uh, there are also a lot more neutrinos that the Muon Collider can produce.
Uh, it's and, uh, the question is how, uh, we should find more use way of using those neutrinos, right?
You get it for free just by just because of the muon beam.
Um, so, for example, there's a recent study that the you just look at the neutrinos from the muon beam, they are just running into detectors.
That's going to already give you a good measurement of of neutrino cross-sections.
Okay. So again I refer you to the details to the talk, uh, later in this conference.
And uh, uh, we can also think about doing more flavor physics.
So, uh, as I already told you, that the flavor of violation signals, uh, can be explored.
We expected to see, uh, be able to see new flavor of violation effect at the same time.
Uh, we should also think about what are the source of the delay.
So far, we have been thinking about the generically parameterizing flavor of violation effect.
But there are also we shall we can also think about the actual models that actually makes the standard model, uh, flavor in the CP structure event.
There are many ideas in the past, such as uh, warps,
compact defecation or partial compulsiveness or just, uh, even older models, such as for Nielsen models.
They all have, uh, new particles.
Right? Uh, and those can be, uh, in principle, accessible at the muon colliders.
I think a more work probably needs to be done in this direction as well.
And we should also think about more detectors. So at there, what you see, we're already doing a lot right.
We're doing beam dump, we're doing Millikan. We're doing phase and more.
Okay. Sorry. Yeah. Just the one more, 1 or 2 more minutes.
Okay. Uh, at the muon Collider, you know, this is a future collider with, uh, uh, higher energy, higher intensity.
Surely we should be able to do much better. Okay, so should we just imagine doing much more there?
Okay. There's already some, uh, I think, uh, initial studies by carry, uh, about beam down, uh, experiments.
I think certainly more work, uh, needs to be done.
Okay. Also, Carey is giving a talk later in this conference, and, uh, well, in general, we wanted to think about even more topics.
I just quickly list some of these things I will not going through goes through any of this just in case.
If you wanted to, uh, for for serious students, if you want to find a research project or do any of this,
you know, um, talk to me, maybe I can tell you what I mean here.
Okay, so this is my conclusion, and, uh, um, so high energy, I think, again, uh,
high energy muon collider holds the promise is to, to get to the, the next energy frontier, in this case around ten, ten TV.
I think as I show you in this with this list, there are lots of interesting physics, uh, to cover.
I think my hope is that we will make solid progress.
Well, we do made a lot of, uh, good progress.
Will continue to make such a solid progress in the coming decade to make this into a much more mature, uh, project.
I also wanted to end with the a my hope for for for my own colleague theory colleagues.
So we have been, uh, doing pretty well, uh, in the last five years in terms of, uh, generates a lot of interest and, uh, activity in studying the.
Of muon collider. Right. So, um, but it's, uh, it's going to be a, uh, long game.
It's take a quite a bit of time to to to to the, to the end and the goal.
So I think, I hope that we can maintain our, uh, our strong support for this effort.
All right. Thank you.
