# Muon Collider Design Choices: Sensitivities and Priorities, Vladimir Shiltsev

Model of accelerators. That's for sure.
Right. So we used to build accelerators like dig a tunnel, put magnets in, put two, three, four detectors, and voila, 20 years of success.
PhD topics and awards. Uh, it will not be the same way.
We know that. But, uh, definition of a miracle is something that happens once over a lifetime of, for example, humanity.
Say it's a million days. 1 in 10,000,000 days.
It's still minus six probability, roughly speaking. We are far, far, far beyond that.
Especially the past 2025 years of research put us in, uh, um, into the, uh,
situation where we can realistically estimate challenges, risks and, uh, basically guide our efforts towards known colliders.
Uh, and that's what I will try to present today. So I'll talk about design sensitivities.
So basically, what are the risks in various uh, systems, subsystems and overall, uh, integration of the, of the collider?
So just to remind you that back a year ago, we had the first, uh, Usmca meeting Kanagawa won at Fermilab.
So a number of pictures were shown. So how these colliders looked in the 90s and then 2020 tens and how we imagined them right now.
So yes, we can, you know, how to draw circles on the on the maps of various kinds, uh, at the same time, um, at least a year ago.
So there was an attempt to look into, uh, how how certain or uncertain various, uh, various system subsystems and parameters of the machine,
particularly, uh, very important that, uh, parameters like a cost and, uh, luminosity.
And what are the risk factors, uh, in the course. So, for example, if there are like four systems, you can, you know,
schematically break up the machine into like proton driver acceleration and Collider.
So what would be that certainty in the in the cost of that system.
What would be uh, approximate uh risk of not getting the, the the luminosity, the design luminosity we are talking about.
And there was a summary of, of this, uh, of this subsystem.
So which resulted that, uh, yeah, there is uncertainty in the cost, definitely belong to the range of approximately like plus -30, 40%, 50%.
But there is a big uncertainty in the luminosity.
So the risk factor, if nothing works as we imagine, uh, basically we, we we fail, but then we don't fail completely.
It's still we are talking about factors here. A factor is there. If you put all these factors in the worst possible, uh, fashion.
Uh, yeah. You can lose, uh, no significant, uh, significant factor in the luminosity.
So at that time, it was estimated to be ten to the five, ten to the nine in the worst case scenario.
So, uh, we extend it a little bit, the model, uh, and, uh, where we are now.
So in the remaining 15 minutes. Right. So I'll try to, uh, present you a very briefly, uh, what, uh,
accelerator builders like myself and my colleagues think about various systems and subsystems of a muon collider, and, uh, what are the parameters?
So basically, you will be bored a little bit because each subsystem will contain a number of systems and subsystems and parameters which affect.
Yes, but there are many parameters. There are many design choices. So for example, for each parameter region and ordinary variations,
many of them of these parameters affect what will be the key performance indicators like energy, luminosity or cost, or all of them together.
For example, luminosity depends on the number of particles, bunch sizes, uh,
collision rates of course, depends on, uh, on the cost of corresponding subsystems.
Uh, for each parameter we will define the realistic range of variation. And that will be uh, kind of in the logarithmic scale.
For example, we know logarithmic means some systems will have like 0.3% uncertainty or risk.
Others will have 10% or 30% or 100%, a factor of three, or a factor of ten or a factor of 30.
So you will see that right. And estimate the sensitivity.
For example, uh, what if, uh, for example, we care about cost and how much delta cost divided by cost will depend on change of the parameters.
So parameters vary and there are many of them on the map. And we assume, uh, that all other parameters except the one we consider uh fixed.
Right. So from the above we have calculate the maximum average effect on these key parameters.
Keep your KPIs like energy, luminosity and cost of the subsystems.
And we do it for each of these four main subsystems. And we use as the default AMC.
Uh, we um color the parameter list published in archive.
Right. So uh, the evolution basis is simple. So the average uh, complex systems, uh,
say the complex systems and main changes on the energy luminosity outlined in many various, you know, comprehensive reports.
The the most cited for, for now is, uh, back from 1999.
So, uh, what Palmer. Uh, the full time CC parameter list was taken here, publications on various topics and subsystems and the cost analysis,
because cost need also needs to be analyzed came from the approaches developed by Implementation Task Force and published in the report.
European strategy inputs give a lot of information about how much things cost,
and there are a number of models of cost models of various accelerators developed by myself.
Strauss and other people. Right? So yeah, let's start with the Collider ring.
Yes. This is the scheme which we've seen a thousand times. And we start with this one.
Right. So there are many parameters. Of course I am not going to go through them.
The challenges for the collider. Um, many of course.
Uh, that includes, uh, for example, significant loss of um, uh, energy for 500W/m loss because muons decay.
Uh, magnet strength is a challenge that is designed with the very small by the function is a challenge point 1% beam
manager strength is a challenge because it is extremely hard to maintain all the particles of the circular orbit.
Efficient collimation will be necessary. Motion detector interface is a challenge being beam effects, stability, cost of magnets, cryo and tunnel.
Uh, we need to reduce neutrino flux and so on, so forth.
You see, there are a number of challenges parameters affecting max and center of mass energy in the collider ring itself.
What are the parameters which may change the energy of the experiment, you know, either increase or decrease it?
First of all, of course, maximum uh, magnetic field. The default is 14 Tesla.
And the range is again between 10 to 30%.
That's what we are talking about. Yes. In the worst case scenario, we can now think that we can operate with like 12 or 11 Tesla magnets.
In the best case scenario, whether we have technology developed for 16 Tesla magnets, that's what we thought about five years ago.
Uh, that would be would be even better. So the sensitivity remember I was talking about exponents, right?
For example, if you change magnetic field by 10%, you'll get 10% increase or decrease in the energy of the experiment.
Right. So uh, basically this exponent kappa uh is equal to one and delta e over e is approximately Ma kind of
variation of the energy you can achieve with approximately 10 to 30% if you change the conference,
what will happen. Right. So the range uh, yeah.
Default range for Collider itself is about ten kilometer circumference.
So you know that, you know, depending on the various considerations,
including the lengths of the magnets or strings of the magnets, the range may vary also by about 10 to 30%.
And that will also affect the energy because energy is proportional to a magnetic field times radius or circumference.
Right? Yeah. The effect on the energy be approximately the same 10 to 30%.
For example, if you have, uh, 30% stronger magnetic field and 30% larger tunnel, right,
you'll get 30 plus 30 like 60 or whatever, 70% increase in the maximum that you can achieve.
Know that these parameters also affect cost. For example, for if magnetic field which uh, uh varies by about 30%, if magnets can uh,
approximately, uh, constitute about one third of the total cost of the collider alone.
Right? So God knows how much the rest will be caused. But at least for the collider ring magnets is about one third of it.
So the the the effect of the cost of the magnet is, uh, growing with the magnetic field as approximately in the, you know, power 1.3.
So change of the cost will be 35% of the total cost times this 1.3 times the variation of the magnetic field, about plus -15%.
So change in the magnetic field of the magnet gives approximately 15% variation in the cost of the collider ink.
Right. That's that's what we expect for circumference, even though the typical construction also is about one third of the total cost of the collider.
But, uh, cost of the civil construction doesn't scale as fast as a, as a variation of the circumference,
as due to the magnetic field, the kappa, the the sensitivity coefficient, the exponent is approximately 0.5.
It mean square root cost of the collider of the of the tunnel is not linear, proportional to the at the length of the tunnel.
Right. It's kind of fraction maybe like uh square root or exponent like point seven.
So I put 0.5. So the change the risk in the cost is uh uh whatever 30% variation in the,
in the magazine circumference times this kappa parameters times this 30% of uh, of the total cost of the collider gives you plus -5%.
Yes. Variation in the magnets is significant factor, uh, contributing to the cost variation of the tunnel.
It is 5% is also significant. But again, it's factor of three smaller.
Many parameters of course, affect luminosity.
You know that the general equation for the luminosity assume that we have significant number of particles compressed in the very small beam size.
Uh, and of course we know that muons decay, uh, and it only they don't really for about 3000 years in the ring.
So and the if you put all this together so for decaying particles you get luminosity
which is again very long formula which includes the rate of injection rings,
conference in mutants in their p optics of their p uh factor of the order of one if bunch length is smaller than beta star magnetic field.
Uh, so uh, beam beam effect is in effect intense.
And yes, this, uh, factor grows, uh, with, with energy.
But optics, of course, having small but a star is a change.
So you see, there are a number of, uh, number of parameters. All of them are affecting the luminosity.
So I don't know why.
Okay. Oh, another, another. Are limited in luminosity.
As, of course, as we know the concern about neutrinos in the flux.
And again, if this flux is something that we can kind of avoid so we can dilute it,
and the things will depend on how effectively you can dilute the entry in the flux.
And then we also will depend on the dilution of the neutrino flux.
I have limited time to go through all the details. Let me show you the whole table.
So you'll see this for of this type of tables, for colliders, for accelerator, for coolant channel and for proton source.
So this is collider in uh risk registry.
So uh, the range of variation of the magnetic field, uh, is again expected to be of the order of 10 to 30% for circumference.
About the same aperture of the magnet affects things very much because the larger the aperture, um, more cost at least.
Uh, you can expect objects, uh, enter of interaction region, dynamic aperture of your magnets, uh, can vary by a significant factor dynamic aperture.
Basically, how much of the good field, uh, a region you will have available for your beam circulation and that affect many,
many things and that the that optics, the significant uncertainty, how will it will work.
Beam dynamics for example B beam effect. So other effects related to uh particles circulate in the machine very by significant factor.
We we we know that there are there are uncertainties of many kinds, uh,
how effectively you can image the beam and how effectively we can, uh, dilute the flux of neutrinos.
Uh, again, uh, that's something we didn't work yet very well.
And there is uncertainty of the order of actually a factor of 3 to 10 easily.
And that power infrastructure, uh, has significant variation.
Basically, how much power is required for the machine is not well defined. Sometimes we hear about 300MW.
Sometimes you hear about 500MW. There is a range. So if you look we are the biggest uncertainty in parameter in this.
Uh so seven different parameters. So subsistence it's here.
It's in beam optics beam dynamics and collimation. Right.
So other parameters are can be more or less no where where they are where they're supposed to be.
But how these parameters affect uh, for example,
the biggest effect on the energy will of course come from the variations of circumference and magnetic field of, of, of the machine.
So the biggest effect on the cost of this is the cost of the collider comes
again also from these three factors magnetic field circumference and aperture.
Right. The effects on the luminosity uh, and mostly come from how will we understand how well we can design the optics of your machine,
basically important elements, uh, how well we control various factors like chromaticity and so on and so forth,
and beam dynamics and the luminosity risk if you put these factors together, uh, vary.
For example, due to circumference, we can lose about like 30% of, okay, 30% of luminosity.
So due to the objects can easily lose factor of three in luminosity.
That's the luminosity means one divided by three. Beam dynamics can affect us similar way.
Uh collimation uh and and neutrino flux problems may may reduce our luminosity by a realistically factor of one, two, maybe three.
And power infrastructure. Uh, so if you don't give enough power, basically we can deliver enough power to the to the beams.
We also can get to get factor of like two thirds, right?
Uh, in the if you sum all things together,
all these uncertainties might potentially result in the combined risk in reaching or not reaching the energy for,
for for, uh, for the collider in, uh, of the order of 60% in the worst case scenario, when everything is against us.
So basically we failed in each of these subsystems, but we not miserably failed.
We just haven't delivered, like 20, ten, 20% of, uh, of magnetic field or circumference or so.
But again, in the world of accelerators, nothing is always in.
In this favor and all in your favor. So if you take basically square root of the maximum and that's approximately 30%, right.
So the cost of this system again, various from from this analysis might potentially vary by 10 to 20%.
Uh, and the luminosity risk just from the collider during a row,
forget about what the preceding accelerators is of the order of a factor of ten to factor of 50.
So we can easily lose 50. No, no, no, we can easily lose ten.
The factor of ten in luminosity. But if everything doesn't work completely as we expect, it completely means all the problems together.
So as we understand them, yes, we can lose factor of 15 luminosity just due to the collider.
So let's go next one. And I have only seven minutes left. So accelerators uh, of the machine uh,
of the of the muon collider include number of stages uh like various exercise two hours S3 and then the big big arcs, which is like 20 or 30km long.
Of course, there are many challenges. This, uh, rapid cycle of synchrotron use fast pulse than normal.
Normal conducting magnets for these, uh, pulses should happen for five years.
Uh, and, uh, be, uh, as long as, like, few milliseconds, uh, again brings, uh, 6 to 35km long muons, of course decay.
You need to take care of these decaying particles. Need acceleration.
And for that, you need a lot of, uh, radiofrequency acceleration.
You need superconducting normal conducting magnets. Cost of this, uh, uh, systems is, is very high.
You need to recover energy of the magnetic field and have a very high byte charge when we accelerate,
which is extra change and then maintain beam quality. Because if beams arrived in the collider totally dispersed, it's not good for luminosity, right?
So the parameters affecting center of mass energy of course include the maximum field of the superconducting magnets,
for example, here and everywhere else. We do have not only normal conducting magnets, but also superconducting ones.
And default is 10 to 16%. And the range of this, uh, magnets is variation is 10 to 30%.
That, uh, affects the maximum energy achievable, uh, in the collider by 5 to 20%.
Maximum field of the pulsed magnets. Also big factor right now it's about 1.8 Tesla super magnets, right.
Which we passed from, you know, -1.8 Tesla two plus 1.8 Tesla.
Very quickly in a millisecond, the range of that parameter, we can change it much.
Right. Again to test latest iteration of the saturation of the of the of the ion.
Right. So basically that parameter doesn't change much. And essentially the maximum effect of uh not achieving this one.
Now two Tesla 1.8. This is of the order of 3% in the luminosity of the collider.
Of course, circumference of this machine, uh, varies by a lot.
The range is about 30%. And it also can affect the maximum energy, uh, attainable.
In particular, in the final, uh, RC is by a factor of 10 to 30%.
Again, I skip a lot and go to the final table for the risk registry for, uh, repeat security interventions.
Yes. We have parameters like field of superconducting magnets, uh, field in the past, magnets,
circumference of the of your epicycle string positions, how much of RF voltage you have available.
And there is a significant sensitivity there. Uh, magnet power supplies, which allow you to get very fast ramping rates,
objects and collimation system in these machines is extremely important, and they can vary by significant factor.
Again, beam dynamics in this machines is it is uh, and uh to be understood very well because uh,
again, uh, we, we didn't build that many machines which vary their parameters very quickly.
And, uh, so far, the best way for us to operate accelerators is to have everything as stable as possible at the level of ten minus six,
for example, stability in fields. Okay. So this is the the most uncertain factors.
Uh, but uh, if you look into what affects the energy of the collider, not the energy of the RC is but energy in the collider, right?
Yeah. Are those field filled in the past magnets and circumference.
Right. So if you look on the cost, the biggest cost factor, uh,
which might affect the cost of the subsystem of acceleration is in the power supplies for, for the, for the past magnets.
Right. Uh, again, this power supply so process approximately quarter of the total cost of the subsystem.
Uh, another another thing is this, uh, RF superconducting RF is enormously large subsystem.
And the good and significant uncertainty there. Right. And the luminosity factor a factor some many.
So for example, in the larger circumference, of course particles will die quicker.
Uh, if you don't have enough voltage, RF voltage installed.
Yes. Uh, your, your, your lifetime will will suck.
So magnet power supply is a very important. And you see the factors of like two thirds, two thirds, 1 or 2 thirds,
one third easily can be lost in uh, in the, uh, in the, in the accelerator chain.
Right. The combined risk in energy just due to the these, uh,
oxygen concentrations is approximately 50% in the worst case scenario, 20% in or reasonably expected.
And the cost of the subsystem varies minimum up to like plus -40% or more realistically, plus -20%.
The risk. Luminosity is about a factor of ten to factor of 40.
That's how much we believe we we can lose in the worst worst case scenario.
And then just in bad case scenario. Right. So the couldn't channel of course that's another thing.
We go of course energy down down. Now to the energy of uh of uh my own channel.
Yes. It's a novel complex lattice with cavities, absorber solenoids.
Critical for that is transmission efficiency, which depends on the magnetic field that have gradients and length.
Normal conduction time is supposed to operate in very strong magnetic fields,
which we didn't usually do right and have many frequency of collective effects are.
Their final coolant requires 45 digital solenoids, which we built only one so far somewhere.
Right. So the nine different ten different ah frequencies. So I skip the parameters.
All right. And go to the uh kind of risk register for muon cooling.
Again the parameters which affect overall mental stature or the risk of of the of the cooling system includes field in the service,
uh in the solenoid final cooling solenoids, field uh magnetite pitchers uh RF gradient and power available in RF cavities at various frequencies.
Uh absorbers, optics and transmission and dynamics.
The most uncertain things where you know the parameters might change by big factor include, uh, final cooling, magnetic field.
Basically if it it might be 45 again, we want 45 Tesla in the final cooling.
Right. But that could be could be, you know, 30 Tesla easily.
Uh, and little probability it could be 55 Tesla.
Right. So optics and transmission of this thing,
that's something that we we kind of work very hard and we know that there are there are uncertainties depending on how well we understand the optics.
And the process of, of cooling could be uncertainty of the order of 3,200%.
And beam dynamics is another thing which are not very certain.
So it's a big factor. And here that none of these parameters affect the energy of the collider just to be aware.
Right. So basically whatever you do with the coolant system you still need to accelerate these particles.
Final energy depends on acceleration and collider in itself.
But the cost of the subsystem is, as you will see later, is substantial.
And the factors affecting the cost, uh, the, uh, the magnetic field in this, uh, in the solenoids of the cooling system final,
the cooling solenoid strength aperture of the magnets is the significant, you know, this couple parameters, right.
And the RF, RF, uh, acceleration. So there is a lot of RF acceleration.
And basically RF is approximately half of the cost of the muon collider RF systems.
Right. So the factors affecting luminosity are essentially all of these factors affect the
luminosity because they affect the midterms of the beam and transmission efficiency.
Basically how many muons survive.
And the if you put all these risk factors together for example here easily like 50% like one half, one half, one third.
So optics and transmission can vary by a big factor easily by by by by a factor of 30.
And beam dynamics can add another factor of three of uncertainty.
If you put things together, the cost may vary up to 50%, but realistically close to 20, and by a factor of 50 to factor of 3000.
Potential loss just in the in the coolant channel final, the proton source and target tree.
There are many challenges as you know again I skipping them because time is running out.
So risk register for for the proton source include parameters like uh energy of the H minus linac,
uh power of the uh linac, which we can provide a repetition rate of the linac.
So circumference of the accumulator in content and compression ring aperture of this magnets in the compression ring.
Uh, and dynamics in this, uh, very complicated beam dynamics in the high intensity uh,
rings called accumulator and then compressor and target magnetic field of the collector and the solenoid,
the length of the, uh, of the tapered solenoid and so on, so forth.
Again, the biggest and so again, uncertainties everywhere of the order of 30%, sometimes like hundred percent.
But the biggest uncertainties in dynamic particular dynamics of a very high intensity,
okay, for high intensity proton bunches in their commutator and combine uh, uh, compressor.
Uh, and the cost of the subsystem depends on all these factors.
So the biggest, uh, the biggest, uh, I would say, uh, factors affecting the target tree system,
cost of the target tree system are energy of the electrical of the energy of the proton beam,
power of the proton beam, and repetition rate of the proton beam. Luminosity may vary by a significant factor if you put them all together.
100% uncertainty in the cost of the subsystem.
Uh, if, uh, again, if you put all things kind of in the in the worst case scenario realistic, I believe like 40% is more more real number.
Right. And luminosity risk factor just due to the proton source and target three minus source and target is factor of 22 factor of 300.
So put things together. So what do we got uh altogether.
So uh, in the of of all the subsystems, the approximate percentage variation, uh,
these approximate share of the proton driver in the total cost of the colliders,
about 15 to 20% from your own code and 10 to 15% for acceleration, 30 to.
60%, and Collider itself is 25 to 40% of the total cost of the machine.
The cost risk of this subsystem is about 40% for proton driver.
So for muon cooling it's 20% 20% for acceleration collider cost.
Uh, again it is risky. But again, the risk uh, uncertainty I would say of that number is over the order of 10 to 15%.
So energy risk of course is concentrated in the acceleration.
And the collider average is dominated by the cooling channel problems or which may or may encounter.
But also uh, things like proton driver and target tree acceleration adds another order of magnitude collider at another order of magnitude.
So we have approximately total output the number from IMS cost estimate for the for the collider 17 plus -4 billion CHF.
So the cost uncertainty of that number is about 30%.
Uh again average. So not the worst case scenario.
Worst case scenario. Could be it could be bigger. And the g risk which we can basically live with is about 30%.
And the risk and luminosity is about factor of, you know, 300 to 100,000.
So summary we have attempted to overview and analyze the muon collider risks
by major subsystems broken the risk on energy risk and revenue generation,
cost and component of the risk in the worst possible scenario or average, which is square root of maximum scenario.
And then the G major energy risk will be collider accelerator magnets and circumference and the set of gradients.
Overall energy risk is about 25 to 30%.
So the luminosity it is expected that by far the largest risk will come from the dynamics of
the coolant channel in the coolant channel and then with proton source and by pulse the pulse,
the acceleration right overall muon collider luminosity risk will be about factor of one over 300.
So 300 to 2 and half orders of magnitude in the worst case scenario to five orders of magnitude.
Right. Uh, the cost norm cost risk is about 25 to 30% as we understand it right now.
So that's again, depending how our parameters play out, we can easily see deviations from the, uh, from from the numbers we communicated so far.
This risk registers of course, should help us to guide the muon collider in the program.
And with that, I thank you for your attention. Thank you.
Vladimir. So any question to start? Yeah.
I think. Thank, uh, thank you, David, for this.
David Saltzberg from UCLA. Thanks for this really nice analysis.
Now, the risk registry model assumes a scenario that will work and makes perturbations about that.
I wondered if you could quickly give a different analysis, which is what are the top couple showstoppers.
That is things that mean we have nothing. And how likely are they the biggest showstopper?
Again, we don't see technical showstoppers.
As you see, none of the parameters we discussed belong to the category of miracles.
Miracles is risk of six orders of magnitude. We are nowhere there.
From my perspective, the biggest showstopper might be the cost.
Uh, because probability of a project to be approved is approximately a one over cost cube of one over cost squared.
So you double up the cost and you instead of 50% probability to be built, you go into the realm of 10% probability to be built.
So from that perspective this analysis is very helpful.
So we are not going to screw things by very much not factor of ten in cost but factors of like 50% of the cost uncertainty.
That's where we are. So that's from my perspective is the biggest I would say challenging realistic risk.
But no miracles. Forget the can. This word miracles shouldn't be used anymore.
All right. So more people know. More people work on these systems more we understand this.
Yeah. This again belongs to the realm of challenges and risk registers.
So just. Yeah. So yeah.
Yeah. Like, it's, uh, if you can do this one. Yes you can. Okay.
Thanks. Uh, just very simple, naive question for a non-expert.
Um, what's the limitation for the size of RCS for, for example, why can you not make it smaller?
Oh, the biggest limitation is, uh.
The energy which you need to achieve is whatever five for 75 or 70 V means that the integral of the magnetic field,
which you need to accumulate over your circumference, needs to be so many Tesla times meters or Tesla times kilometers, right?
So yes, you can increase the kilometers. Yeah. So instead of 30km, make it, uh, make it three kilometers.
I would be more than happy to have that, but that will require a factor of ten higher magnetic field.
And we already work at the at the limit.
So the limit assumes that we have superconducting magnets at 14 Tesla intertwined with the long sections of pulsed magnets.
So in order to have a factor of ten compression, we'll need superconducting magnets operating at 140 Tesla.
That is totally impossible. And post magnets separated that instead of plus minus two Tesla plus -20 Tesla.
That is totally impossible. That would be miracle because probability of that is 10 to -7, right?
So that's what makes us not believe in in anything.
Anything beyond that small out of small range. Yes. All right.
Yeah. Kevin Black, UW Madison. I was wondering if you could quickly go to the muon cooling one.
Uh, whatever it was. Slide three. We had number three.
Item number. The the slide number. Okay, I don't know.
Yeah. This one. Yeah.
So you mentioned, uh, you know, the the largest one is the optics of the transmission, which then translates to a big one over 30.
Yeah. I was just naively trying to understand, uh, since I only have a very basic understanding of all of these factors.
You know, the final cooling has the same amount of uncertainty in the range, but then corresponds only to a factor of a half.
So I was wondering if you could say a bit how we get from the same.
You know what. What is the dependance that is so strong that we end up with such a large difference?
I think the best answer will be given by specialists. The answer is that's what we believe in.
But there will be special talk on the coolant channel. It is complicated.
I'm just telling you that we can easily screw up both final coolant and main coolant.
Right? But main coolant has significantly more elements.
For example, uh, 800 cells. Can you imagine 800, uh, coolant cells?
Uh, it's enormously big number. And each of them kind of affects, you know, half a percent here, half a percent there.
You can get nothing. And then the things kind of screwed up completely.
Right. Again, it's a complicated technical question, but, uh, yeah, I think you could,
because you have so many elements that if all of them go down right, right.
But again, remember, final cooling system is just for ten meter long elements or sections.
Right. Well, the rest is like kilometer long. So kilometer long of problems and 40m long of problems.
And that's relative weight of, uh, opportunities for us to screw up things.
Thank you for the help. And, uh, that we have back.
Yeah, maybe we can do the last. I have a lot of beer. Thanks for your analysis.
I was curious, what's driving your assumed uncertainty on the on the circumferences of rings?
Uh, in some sense, you could say I'm going to build a ring that's this size and there's no uncertainty on it.
So maybe it's the cost that that's driving the uncertainty.
Um. It's, you know, it goes hand in hand with uncertainty on the magnetic field.
If you if your magnetic field is 10% lower and you still want 70 particles, you need to make your collider collide the ring bigger, right?
So, uh, and that's easily goes there. So there are uncertainties of that type.
There are uncertainties like Shawn for example, spend the spend like five years trying to optimize their their geometry for FCC.
And so the hundred kilometers initial circumference, they are now at 90km.
They change the conference by a factor of 10%. Why?
Because of geological, uh, geological considerations. So there are many local factors which play there.
So a question is, are these factors in or contribute to factor a kind of risk of two or a risk of 1%?
No, it's not 100%. It's not 1%. It's of the order of 10 to 30% that most all combined.
That's what I try to put in into this analysis. Um, yeah.
Yeah, yeah. One last question. So, uh, if you don't mind asking in the coffee break, uh, for sure.
Yeah, we are almost way into the coffee, and I'm chair of the next session.
I'm very much interested to see you all at 11. Right. All right.
Darren Acosta, Rice University, just a quick comment. Uh, stemming from the risk on the luminosity.
But first, thank you for your for going through all these details with us.
Um, just to point out that if we are so lucky as a community to eventually get a $20 billion collider, that's not bad.
Everything on the highest luminosity we want.
Let's make sure there's a science program we can get at to an order of magnitude less, or hopefully not more than that.
But clearly R&D will improve on these estimates. But we should be careful about our.
Make sure we don't bet $20 billion. Yep. And we need the maximum luminosity from last year.
Project told us that the drop luminosity by three orders of magnitude and there is tons of great physics still available there.
So that's a trust, Patrick, you know. Right.
Uh, let's thank me for, uh, once again for the talk.
