# Morning Plenary 2

Very important announcement from our fearless leadership.
Okay. All right. Talking of fearless leadership, we finally have our election done.
Thank you all. For those of you who voted, but the quorum was just barely met.
Next time around, I want everybody to vote. Uh, that's one important lesson from this.
I think I emailed enough times. I don't think that's the problem.
I think that people thought that I don't have a strong opinion. All of these guys are great.
In that context, thank you for all the people who ran in the elections.
It's very important to do so. And those of you who said that we're not voting members because you're participating less than 10% of the time,
I encourage you to change your status to be a voting member and vote.
And congratulations to these six people who form our leadership.
Having said that, you give it off to serve. Thank you all for, uh, for running.
And thank you. Well, definitely.
Uh, 35. Yeah. Um, so first of all, I actually have a couple of mics.
I don't need more than one. I hope you guys can hear me in the back.
Um, first of all, I just want to say thank you to Shridhar and Michael Big for running the elections.
Um, we. It was a very smooth process. Um, thank you to all of you.
To everybody who participated, participates in this meeting, as well as everybody who participated in the election.
Um, I think everybody from the leadership team is here this week.
And, uh, we're all excited to talk to you. Uh, we are very grateful for your support.
And we appreciate the votes that you gave us your trust.
And we'll do as good of a job as we can to support the community and serve you well in this role for the next a little over two years.
Um, so since Vladimir remind me kindly that I shouldn't be, uh, too late.
I'm gonna get going. Uh, so I get the honor of doing highlights of, uh, us, me on, uh, us me on collider activities.
I specifically highlight the awards highlights because, uh, I have a lot of mileage to cover, so I'll be brief.
You will see a lot of details and parallel talk presentations and some of the plenaries that you will see throughout the next two days.
And this is on behalf of the newly elected leadership. Uh, outline of my presentation.
I'll talk a little bit about Usmca formation goals and next steps, engagement with our international friends and partners,
and the ongoing European strategy process and how we contribute to it.
Recap of me on Collider Challenges. Although we heard a lot about this from Vladimir already, what we're doing, what the under the plan is,
and what are the ongoing U.S. activities, how we fund them, um, highlight upcoming meetings and outreach activities and give you a summary.
Um, so I wouldn't be able to do as great of a job as Leon Tao did in physics.
So I'll be very brief on this slide, but I just want to recap the fact that this is a really amazing,
very unique machine that potentially can enable, uh, extraordinary physics, uh, potential.
And I just want to show you three plots without explaining it, but just saying that this is really a multi Higgs factory,
and I like to refer to it this way because this goes you to beyond the single factory,
to the point where you can precisely measure the Higgs potential and therefore has, has very,
uh, intimate connections to the what we like to say past and future of the universe.
We know that the combination of, uh, what is the point of the combination of energy reach of a million collider coupled with this precision?
Uh, and when I say precision, I really mean this absence of this overwhelming background that you see at the Hadron machine is very powerful.
And in terms of reach for new physics, as illustrated by this Higgs composition,
this plot can take you far beyond give you extraordinary sensitivity to new physics, way beyond the center of mass energies.
You can see that in this case, you probe as far as 70 or 85.
And then finally, last but not least, it opens the door for new standard Model phenomena that we haven't seen, uh, so far.
And the machines that we have. And with this machine, we can really see them.
Uh, so see the standard model through a completely different regime and enable that new chapter basically in the exploration of a standard model.
So I think this physics didn't go unnoticed, right? In the last couple of years.
We have two reports coming from prominent high energy physics panels that looked at the priorities in the field,
that is from different angles, different methodology.
But nevertheless I wanted to read you two quotes, one from P5, and although we do not know if muon collider is ultimately feasible,
the road towards at least from confirmed labs strengths and capabilities to a series
of proton beam improvements in neutrino beam facilities at the end of a path,
is an unparalleled global facility on the US soil. This is our moonshot.
And then for the. We heard from Maria on the National Academy of Sciences.
But just to reiterate, the first recommendation they gave was the United States should host the world's
highest energy elementary particle collider around the middle of the century.
This requires the immediate creation of the National Muon Collider Research and Development program,
to enable the construction of a demonstrator of the key new technologies and their integration.
I think the two excerpts basically send your message that both panels appreciate the importance of timely realization of this R&D program that we need
to put in place in order to put ourselves in position to be ready for construction of this machine on the timescale of approximately two decades.
So to get organized in the US, as you heard from, uh, many people, um,
announcing the election results, we thought if we formed the US Muon Collider collaboration,
we have core purposes we defined for this collaboration define necessary work for the
MIT p5 panel design a US based demonstrator engaged with international community.
Create the long term vision for Fermilab that includes muon collider and build on the theory driven physics case.
And you know, we're very happy to see so much engagement this.
The photo from last year's meeting, the inaugural meeting we had, and I think we have a lot of people here as well.
Uh, we have our charter document, which basically defines the workings of a collaboration.
We ratify that in May. And then the election, uh, happened at the end of July.
This is a little bit on the demographics. Uh, so currently we have 244 members from 81 institutions possible.
A few people actually joined. While since this plot was made.
We can look at that. Um, we encourage you to join.
Uh, I think it would be wonderful to grow this community.
We understand that you have other commitments as well, but even if you can allocate a little bit of time, stay in the loop.
You're working on something relevant for them. You on Collider, please join send email to myself and Tova.
So in terms of seniority, you can see how things break down.
Uh, so we see a lot of, uh, senior folks.
We see good engagement from younger people back. I think we would like to see even more engagement from early career representatives.
We see many of them during the school this week as well as being engaged in that.
So if you haven't joined the collaboration yet, please do so.
And then if you look at the area in terms of breakdown accelerator, experimental,
area theoretical, you can see again that we're dominated by the experimental.
We have good number of people involved in theoretical and accelerator, but we would also like to grow these areas as well.
Right. In particular we need accelerator work force. Now come back to this in in a little bit.
So again uh if you're hesitant uh, but you're interested, you would like to contribute even at the small level.
Please, please join the collaboration. Uh, we covered the slide.
Um, not gonna, um, again, cover the composition of the leadership group.
Uh, what I wanted to say is that, uh, we're formally getting engaged.
Now, the next step for the collaboration is to form the leadership strategy group.
This is more of a broader advisory panel for the group.
And this will be this will be something that we'll be doing in the coming weeks.
Uh, we also would like to welcome feedback from the collaboration about how we can serve you better.
What should be the priorities for us? Uh, so I'll give you a link here.
It's a Google doc. Please go there if you have thoughts that you would like to share with us, please do.
So. We would. We would love to hear from you.
Um, amongst the, uh, leadership team, I would say that Kylie is, uh, the most organized, our communications officer.
Uh, while we were debating about what should be done, Kylie already developed a very detailed plan.
Um, on her in terms of communication, in broad strokes, it involves broad public outreach.
I think we absolutely need this. If we are seeing this as a potential future for us.
Particle physics, engagement with government relations and advocacy, and then finally,
cross-disciplinary communication that includes not just communication amongst frontiers within the field,
but also communication sport to industry partners outside of HPE, etc.
Uh, again, this area is very active. They have social media.
Um, and if you would like to get involved, please contact Kylie and Larry.
They'll be happy to get you engaged.
A lot of people helped us to take in the US this effort from the Snowmass process, including the Snowmass process, to the point where we are today.
This included people who contributed to various R&D panels, interim coordination group organizing,
various meetings, meetings, reports, etc. and now it's a long list of people.
We're infinitely grateful to all of you. It's not the end of your all.
We will. We plan to continue working with you, but maybe a quick applause to everybody who contributed to this.
Um, few words on the current funding.
So, so for the funding agencies, D.o.e. and NSF have not been able to allocate direct, targeted funding for this effort.
But the community has been very proactive, very successful at securing different sorts of funding.
At National Lab, our main workforce at the moment, workforce at the moment is laboratory directed R&D funds.
So are the these are typically funds that are at the discretion of the lab directors or the lab directorate.
And they can use it for both strategic but also innovation purposes and things like that.
So we have a couple of these at Fermilab, uh, either dedicated uh, to the muon Collider or related to the muon Collider.
We have LDA, BNL and uh, and LDA are the at Berkeley lab, as well as some funding from guard uh, at select dedicated high field RF testing.
And I'll come to come back to this in a second. What I wanted to highlight for National labs is that while we're waiting for dedicated funding,
LDA is really an excellent platform to kind of see these effort to make sure that some work gets done.
And then, of course, that positions national labs into an excellent position once funding becomes available
to kind of piggyback on this initial development started by LDA and get funded in,
uh, in a broader context. And then at the universities, our committee was also very successful at, um, engaging private funding.
So we see that multiple universities have been attracting Simmons funds, Cottrell funds, Sloan Fellowship,
Kavli and as well uh supplement exist with startups, internal funding and fractions of grants based grants.
SCA and career fence. Uh the fraction of research is true for national labs as well.
Um, we're not in this alone. I continue making the statement there's a broad me on Collider community international muon collider community.
The international efforts are coordinated by the international Me on Collider collaborations.
Uh, several members are present here at this meeting. And the chair of I'm CC Daniel Showalter is connected on zoom.
It's a very active community. They have five years of active work, over 50 institutions and funding in Europe comes from multiple sources,
which includes CERN and dedicated EU grants. Uh, US is pretty heavily engaged on this.
Uh, we have representation and leadership. We have multiple institutions signing MLC.
We do encourage you, if you're at US university, to consider signing MLC,
uh Western and for national labs to join this effort officially and collaborate.
Uh, again, we do it unofficially, but officially, we need this collaborative agreement between Dia in CERN.
This is something that's that's pretty much in process.
Uh, and I want to say that once the European strategy process is completed and once US muon collider efforts ramp up,
we should definitely discuss, uh, how we formally engage the two, uh, organizations together towards the common goal.
And this is just a picture of the latest meeting we at the Desy. A lot of exciting contribution.
New contributions. About 20% came from, uh, participants came from the US.
You'll hear more, uh, in Taylor's presentation, um, IMC put a very comprehensive document to the European strategy.
It's about 400 pages, which includes, uh, technical material, achievements, R&D plans, timelines and things like that.
I encourage you to go and read this document that your time will take a while to really fully comprehend that,
but that's it's a really excellent source of information. And again, I want to say that many of us people have been heavily involved in this effort,
in addition to put that to contributing to this international submission to the, uh, US community or to the European strategy community.
We also submitted that ten pages summarizing U.S. plans and strategies specifically for me on Collider.
It's available on archive. We had over 300 signatories from the US, and the main messages is close collaboration between the two regions.
No region can do it alone. Advocate for strong and sustained support for me on Collider.
Then, if you're in Europe, express interest in hosting the demonstrator and potential of the collider in the US.
Outlined goals for US, SMC and how it interfaces the international efforts and supports the Eastern Collaborative Agreement,
and the main messages were propagated to the DPI document that was submitted.
Okay, so that was kind of the organizational part. I wanted to spend the rest of my presentation talking about some of the technical
aspects of the machine and how we are contributing to addressing these challenges.
So you've seen this concept many times. I'm not going to go through different stages of a muon collider.
Just wanted to say that the goal is to get to the ten TV center of mass energy with high luminosity,
but it's true that most likely we will not get to that from the get go, right?
We're thinking about strategic staging strategies, including staging and energy, as well as in luminosity.
There are multiple challenges. Vladimir talked about that.
And the relative risks that are challenges in the front end where you have production and capture and cooling of the muons.
We need high gradient RF and many systems that are challenging different magnets, challenging magnets across the entire system.
We have a dense neutrino flux that needs to be mitigated, and for the detector purposes,
we have a challenging beam induced background that needs to be addressed.
And as we've seen, you shouldn't think about this as showstoppers or miracles.
Again, I'm trying to go away from this definition. Think about it as luminosity and cost risk.
I think that's that's a better way to put this.
We heard from earlier presentation that cooling is one of the biggest risks in terms of the luminosity performance of a machine.
So to address this risk, the community would like to demonstrate partial cooling,
six day cooling to convince the community that this is really achievable and the performances as it's expected.
To this matter, we're planning to build a demonstrator,
which will consist of approximately 20 cells and demonstrate partial cooling and also engineering aspects of building cooling cells.
Again, to be, uh, sure that this pool system consisting of hundreds of kilometers of cooling cell can then practically can practically be realized.
And we're looking into potential sites and their sites potentially available at CERN and Fermilab.
Different locations, different advantages. But, well, we'll talk about this in a moment.
You'll hear more about this in this presentation police attended at Fermilab.
Uh, we know there are multiple beam lines and potentially their beam available at different energies,
different power availability varies depending on where you would like to put the demonstrator and when.
But we have many, many options, as I said, at different energies.
So what we would like to do is to put some work into understanding how these compare.
Maybe some of them are not really even feasible,
maybe some have distinct advantages that we want to capitalize on, such as reusing the infrastructure.
So we have a two year funded LDA ready to do this work.
And now to understand the relative comparisons and again, identify maybe the most,
uh, prioritize the most promising locations for the cooling demonstrator.
Now we know that the cooling demonstrator is something that's pretty, pretty pretty major.
I mean, it's not going to be a cheap project. Of course, it's small compared to the collider itself.
It's still a significant project and we want to approach it in phases.
So the phase first phase will be to start from basic stuff testing.
Well, it's not so basic, but still the fundamental stuff such as testing RF cavities in magnetic field, which is crucial for cooling.
The second stage will be building cells for the six cooling demonstrator, understanding that you can address engineering aspects of us.
And then finally, once you convince yourself of this,
then the final phase consists of building the beam line and certain number of cooling cells, putting them together, and doing the measurements.
Uh, what I want to say is there's a lot to be involved. There's, um, we need design studies for these coils under extreme forces.
We have a bnl, LDA, LDR, the PID by Mike, Mark and others to do this work.
And we need design of specialized RF cavities for the cooling channel.
You can hear more about this by Dylan in the parallel session.
I talked to you about the first stage which is testing RF cavities in the magnetic field.
We don't have yet those magnets and RF cavities that we absolutely that we need the exact cavities and magnets we need for the cooling.
So but the question is, can we actually, in the meanwhile,
utilize things that we do have or can't get our hands on to get us a little bit closer towards the goal that we want to achieve?
And the answer is yes. And we're really excited to see that, that slack.
There's plans in place to procure a five Tesla solenoid and put higher frequency cavities,
normal conducting cavities into this field and test their performance.
Again, it doesn't quite put you in the exact regime of a muon collider, but it's a step towards that.
You can learn a lot, and maybe you can extrapolate on the way towards the actual demonstration of the proper cavities and magnetic fields.
And again, uh, slack really can capitalize on, um,
incredible amount of experience and knowledge in the areas of RF cavity development, power sources, etc.
Um, on the magnet side, magnets are equally important.
This is slide from Steve. Um, a lot of progress, uh, was made there.
Um, first of all, there is progress with niobium.
Three thin magnets, steady progress that pushes, um, the magnets towards higher fields, uh, larger apertures.
And we're starting to get close to the muon collider territory.
Uh, but maybe more even exciting is that also on the red core, on the high, high temperature superconductor side,
we're actually making advancements and breaking records in terms of what's achievable in the fields.
And I want to highlight one area which was recently added to the roadmap of MDP, which,
uh, shows you high yield solenoid, which is exactly what we need for the muon collider.
Right. So that's, that's, that's a really good the. As well. Few words about other areas.
Uh, we have an SNS, uh, accelerator where we have ability to compress bunches not quite to the level of the muon collider,
but do significant branch compression and test limits of hardware and space charge.
And that's ongoing work. That's, um, that's taking place at Oak Ridge National Lab.
You'll hear more about this and Austin's presentation.
And finally, we're behind CERN and understanding siting requirements at Fermilab compared to the CERN siting.
But nevertheless, there's ongoing work by Carl and others to understand how the acceleration can be performed,
uh, within the boundary sites of, of Fermilab.
And we're not quite yet where we want to be, but we need we need more innovative ideas to get to the energy reach.
Accelerator workforce is very important, and we're doing multiple things to advance that one as we host that during this week,
a three day accelerator school with more than 70 students.
And we're doing a summer program where we bring people, university students into national labs, Fermilab and BNL.
As you can see from this picture, to work and learn about accelerator design in the summer.
And we'd really like to expand this program in the coming years to make it more accessible, different labs and bigger.
Last few slides on the experimental challenge. I'll be very quick, but the challenge I spend a lot of time on the machine,
but I want to spend a couple of slides on the experimental challenge because it's there and it needs to be addressed.
And then challenge comes from the presence of the beam induced background.
Muons decay and create, uh, very strong background in the detector.
Uh, so we went there. There was a lot of work there, uh, which was, by the way, part in Europe, uh,
in uh, recently and around 2019, 2020, Europe reengaged the US during Snowmass.
And I think together the two regions done have done an amazing job addressing this challenge.
We went from, oh, this cannot be done to the point where, yes, fundamentally, this is reducible.
If we have the right detectors, we can do it. And um, here we have detector developments.
We have in the last year developed two detector concepts, Maya and music.
Both of them show excellent performance. And what we're convinced then is that with R&D, with proper investment,
we should be able to address the detector challenge on the time scale the machine becomes available.
But again, this is uh, this is very important to maintain, and we're looking into different technologies.
There's a whole slew of um, and we need to address also many fundamental challenges of the detector itself,
which includes ac-dc, magnets, power distribution, etc., etc.
Finally, remember that this machine is not just a collider, it's a machine that enables tons of other possibilities.
We'll hear more about this and carry Matthew and reassurance presentation,
but it really is a machine for the entire community, including precision, neutrinos and many other things.
These are just the upcoming meetings. Take a note of these, uh, would be lovely if you guys can participate in them.
I wanted to advertise the fact that the next year meeting we plan to do it that slack and the dates will be defined.
And and that brings me to my conclusion. So Muon Collider complex offers amazing physics opportunities.
It does require a significant global R&D program. U.S. community is ramping up.
We have big challenges to solve. Maria told us about this.
It's not a walk in the park. Uh, we need this across different frontiers.
We need people, resources, and creative ideas. So please join the effort.
And these are just two ways to stay in touch. Thank you and apologies for being a little late.
Thank you sir. So you finished writing time? You have time for a few questions.
Raise your hands. Raise your hands.
Raise your hands twice. One in the back. Thanks.
I can ask maybe a two specific question. Uh, I don't know how developed, uh, the, uh, plans for a demonstrator are yet,
but to what extent is anything reusable from it, whether it's civil engineering facilities or magnets themselves?
Um. So your your question is, uh, how mature are the design of a demonstrator?
And then what was the second part of a question? They didn't catch out. Uh, if you can reuse it when you go, actually, my go to class.
Yeah. So I think that's a that's an excellent point. So, uh, the,
the design for the demonstrator conceptually is there I would say we still need to do a fair
amount of work to get to the point where we actually actually have engineering design.
We understand exact, but that is coupled with the, uh, location of this.
So you can't really do a full design work until you understand what beam do you have available.
Right. Um, example and many examples of this.
Uh, it's not just the demonstrator itself. It also includes the target systems.
It includes the instrumentation for the demonstrator, etc., etc.
What we would like to do is we would like to understand how the demonstrator facility can be used for physics purposes.
And that's a very active ongoing area. Uh, that are possible depends on the exact parameters of the demonstrator.
You could potentially attach either a neutrino cross-section program to it.
Again, that's not a new idea. You could potentially consider attaching something that includes cons into this.
Again, not from the muons but from the protons that will come from it, um, as well as some other ideas.
And they charge lepton flavor violation sector. That could be potentially possible.
So yes, this is something we need to we need to push on further and understand.
Yes. One of us. Yes. And you know, I you kind of largely answered my question because I wondered what the point was.
This demonstrator I mean, the problem is we had we had a demonstration of cooling the mouse experiment and that killed the muon,
a whole muon program, as far as I could see. Not except, uh, you know, did train some people and got hands on experience,
but I'm afraid that you're going to use this to prove beta block formula and to
just solidify a design and and just eliminate all flexibility going forward,
because everything you just mentioned in terms of this other physics could have been in the old staged, uh,
view of Fermilab when we were talking about, uh, going all the way up to a muon collider with the neutrino factory in between.
So that's what I'm afraid that this fixating on the demonstrator will just completely distort a clearer and more direct.
So I appreciate the comment. I first of all, I welcome you to provide those comments on the form that I said.
I think we want more comments from the community to address your comment.
I want to say, um, I think it's clear that the community wants to demonstrate not just the principle of ionization cooling,
which you can argue was demonstrated with limited intensity by mice.
But also what's very important is to demonstrate engineering aspects of building, uh, cooling cells and making sure that you can operate them,
you can tune them and you do all the measurements with partial cooling, with,
uh, intensities that exceed what was able to do, what the mice was able to do.
I'm not saying that this is dramatically different from the old plans, but we also want to capitalize on, uh, technological developments, right?
I mean, the the field is not exactly what it was like 15 or 20 years ago.
And I think we want to fold this into the new designs to really capitalize on these improvements.
So these are the things.
But I think some demonstration of cooling beyond the proof of principle before beyond the initial proof of principle is needed.
Okay. Let's thank our speaker again. Reach here.
25 minutes. Yours. Oh, okay.
So. Works better if you stand on the side of. Okay.
Good. Come on. Very clever. That's good. Okay.
All right. Uh, yeah. I would like to thank organizers to give me this chance to give a talk here.
I'm, you know, very surprised that we have, you know, this number of people that I feel excitement towards the moon Collider.
Well, organizers gave me this title.
It's a very big title for me, but that, you know, uh, I'm gonna give a private view from Japan about the moon collider if, uh, maybe.
How to how to put cursor. Um. Try now.
Yes. Good. Good. Good. Yeah. So this is a disclaimer that that I'm not at all an officer representative which outlines hip community.
So what I say here, it's just a private comment. Don't take that as a serious, you know, comment from Japan.
But I tried to say something, some random things which came out during the discussion with my my colleague.
It's experimental colleagues in Japan. I'm actually a so that you know, I tell you probably that random things really.
But anyway the contents are largely personal. Opinions are difficult.
Disclaimer. Okay, so there's that recent news from Japan that that we have not we I see that some experiment in Japan,
Z minus EDM at JB Park has succeeded to accelerate muons up to 100 kV, and they are going accelerate up to 200 MeV.
And they even cool the muon by using some mechanism.
And they made the admittance, which is much better than the core of the moon collider.
So we have a very advanced technology of mule acceleration and cooling both.
So I think this is, uh, you know, wonderful connection to that Moon Collider.
And I'm thinking of using this technology for the Muon Collider, uh, uh, kind of alternative options.
Let me, um, collider tech on this. So I will tell you a little bit about the technology itself.
So this is the mu press cooling method. So it that's like only for mu not nu minus.
And this is the uh, basically the uh, explanation.
So we have mu Prof. Beam coming from the proton drive bar, and, uh, we just stop that mu some target that I urgent and,
uh, then when it is stopped, they actually form a mu plus e minus bound state.
So that's, uh, you know, that's that like a hydrogen atom.
So this gets neutral so they can actually evaporate out to the vacuum when it is going to the vacuum.
You can shoot the laser to strip this electron. Now we have a, you know, very core the moon come out from this um, this material.
Then we just accelerate the vehicle through that, uh, through the Mu has to experiment, migrate, you know, so this is the technology.
And the reason for using this for, for them is due to suppress the the sensitivity of that to the electric field in the experiment.
But so you know that the performance is different.
But anyway, this is very wonderful technology for cooling mu.
So that so basically what I'm telling you that the easiest muon cooling concept is that
just stop the beam at the stop bar and try to get out of the mu mu mu out of this.
But that difficulty is always here.
So the mu part I, as I told you, the mu provocative electron and it hopefully they can try to wait for for them to be coming out from the stopper.
But for the mu minus case they are trapped by the nucleus and they never come out.
So. So that so the mu minus is difficult.
The mu process is kind of easy out by by, you know, this, uh, you know, the Rs is made up of protons.
That's not sad story. But anyway, so this is the, uh, uh, concept and that the protocol,
the muon is actually here compared to the the record of the moon collider is here, so it's much better.
So why don't we just use this mechanism for, for the majority, of course, the stopping mu is generally a good idea because the evidence is in it.
That roughly thing if the rain stops.
So it's that's a good idea for emitters. But the question is how many mu and the one can get.
I'm not going to try to convince you that this if you know, this question has some answer.
And I, I try to explain how much we can get.
So so the so I can tell you the story of the the muon z minus three experiment update paper.
That is the okay. The initial muon beam is like sorry move with that momentum spread one MeV.
So this is instead of constants already much better than the the collider thing.
But anyway they have this beam from the beginning.
And I don't mean I'm starting to make it slow, but of course at this stage admittance is still worth.
But what do you do is to stop at that it.
Yeah it's I o to thing. So this is a seven millimeter.
So this is maybe you can say so.
So there's a for you know that that the number of stopped mu so that it basically stops everywhere in in this map here at seven millimeter.
This red histogram is the one which is getting out from that, from this uh, uh, from this target.
So only. As some small fraction of them can be evaporated out of into the PACU, and they use shoot laser to strip club to get them you.
So how many number of million we can get? You can. I can explain it first.
We we lose 50% of the moon by just topping 50%.
We want the moon to be stopped near the surface.
Otherwise it's not if it's not going to get out. So this is 50%.
But, um, on purpose, you know, we we just, you know, throw out and the 52% gets electron to get out.
You know me all my information. And this 6% is this fraction, you know, compared to this and this.
So the only the surface part, it can be used and it's 27% if the laser eradicated the for you, you know, the moon.
If only 27% of moon in the in the laser and 7% ionize, the entire point 3% of moon can be used as a as a foot on.
So this is in a very small number compared to that.
Do that. You know me. Oh God idea I think uh purpose.
But there's a sensible, you know, wish sensible.
I mean, I don't know if there's a way to to make it larger, uh, if this is larger,
if we have enough money and the enough money is not the scale of the moon Collider money, not the medium.
Okay? We have enough money. We can think of this kind of tech, you know, thing.
So we have instead of seven millimeter target, we split into the seven one millimeter target or more and let them stop somewhat, you know, somewhere.
So so if the we'll be uniformly stopped somewhere, but almost all of the moon can be evaporated into vacuum.
And if you have enough rays up bar, you can, you know, cover all the body, you know, vacuum region to be, you know, irradiated by the laser.
In that case, you can count the number of sensitive. So it's all stopped and the 52% remains the same but the 60%.
So compared to the 6% and 60% vacuum, it can be obtained because it's ten and 100% laser in a volume and 73% is the same.
If in total it's 23%, then it's a big number.
You know, 23% of moon you can use. This is not hardly this is very idealistic estimate.
Right. It's I didn't do any miracle here.
So so I think this is a totally an interesting idea to have, uh, you know, good quality of muons with large number of.
Yeah, uh, flux. But again, as I say, this is only from you press.
Okay. Now why do we consider this. So this is my personal idea.
So once you build a demonstrator,
why don't we just in that in the downstream put the our you know this the muon new prosecuting thing to demonstrate this one.
So this is demonstrator demonstrator. So the demonstrator one we we we demonstrate the ionization cooling.
And then we have uh we don't have.
So, so this is the different beam 200 maybe. So we need a huge number of stuff but probably.
But anyway so in that case you know if it's stopped but stop seeing that huge, huge number.
So maybe some some meter of you know these are stopped mu is there.
So you have to actually cut it down. Again, you're focusing into one point and do the same thing again.
But if since here must be much better than that, that uh, the initial one because it's already cooled.
So it's so the I put 50% compared to the 23%, I think that's a if is a good estimate, then it's 10%.
This number of very core of the moon can be obtained out of that you know demonstrator squared.
So I think this is very sensible idea to use this.
I know the bounce removal thing. So I think this is 15 thing.
These things will be very interesting. And by the way this is sorry that the the opening slide, I just heard from my colleague that the,
the very same technologies actually used well, not the used being prepared at uh, I for the positron is being prepared at the, at the CP site.
So it's uh, it's, it's not a muon. It's like C minus positron.
You informed and laser ionize and then you can get the very low emitters mu beam.
That could be useful I see you I have c c okay I don't know.
So so this is again this is not official coming from k k but yeah.
Thank you. Why do we have video. Obviously they stick with us.
And we could also think of the use of this very core, the Mu tools.
If the monster that was built at Fermilab, that's like unused magnets there.
So why don't we just use this suit through this, uh, this magnet again to do that Z minus two experiment.
This should give a much better, you know, systematic control because this is a very nice beam.
So the electric field uncertainty is gone from this.
You know, I think that that would be very interesting possibility.
I want to say a little bit about that, uh, the mu mu plus Collider, because we have a good technology to to get new Prof.
Called the Mu Prof. So why do we think of new new plus collider rather than some new minus Collider?
This is actually an interesting idea because first of all, for this kind of process,
which is actually dominated at the muon collider is basically the same between moo moo minus mu mu.
For example, photon, photon, photon Z or you know, w photon, whatever.
That kind of interaction is the same. So the for example, the Higgs production is oh six.
Production is a little bit complicated because it's a that we press w minus is are usually two to make a Higgs boson.
But in the in the case of that new plus mu process w w plus they never produce six them.
But there's an interesting story that the mu plus can emit the photon, and the photon can pretty w present w minus.
So the w minus is actually present in mu plus b as a PDF, you know button distribution function.
So the and that ten TV that's printing doesn't cost too much.
You know it's all the RFA. So it sounds like it's all that you know or the you know ten to the minus four suppressed process.
But it's it's not it is actually only attentive.
It turns out that the Higgs production cross-section is just different by a factor of two.
So the compared to that mu or mu you minus just actually the difference disappear at the ten DV.
So the this this you know kind of process it is the same.
So I think it's a sensible way to think about the cause.
And also this is something I'm excited about now that the mu nu process you know scattering and then the sorry w plus w scattering,
you can measure very high energy. And that tells you and how he thinks, you know, he added C is really the he explained the standard model.
I think that's the question we want to answer now.
We want to answer now. And that can really be seen at the, at the, at this uh, uh, for I doubt very with very good precision.
And there are many other interesting opportunity of having me in a lepton number.
That's the initial state that many works here.
And there's another interesting thing that, uh, there's, uh, electron neutrino beam coming from the muon.
This is the for me, some mu minus one. Anyway, that is very interesting.
So we haven't have any, you know, me, my new electron neutrino beam.
So the you know, this can be used as a neutrino isolation measurement like new E2, new moon.
So it's particularly interesting because we can test the CP t violation by flipping, you know, mu nu mu to new, e to new the new mu.
So these are t by the opposite. The sounds like the T violation.
So that this is should be the same as a CP violation. So that this is going to be a test of CP violation.
You know I'm not going to tell you anything about this. But anyway this is something interesting.
Physics is there. But of course the main purpose of the muon collider I would say main is the, the, the extra production of new particle.
I think without this there's no strong argument we can make for, for that, for that muon collider I think.
So the possibility of having, you know, accessing through that directly to the PB particle production if necessary.
So that is only possible for Mu Braskem. You minus mu mu mu mu minus correlation for generic particle like, you know, stop for whatever particles.
But it is interesting that that this kind of physics.
You don't need so much in luminosity. Thank you.
Thank you.
Like, uh, you know, 1 or 2, without going through the lesson, obviously could be enough for for discovering, for this particle, this kind of thing.
So if that's the case, there's maybe an interesting scenario come out for, for example,
the high luminosity mu plus mu plus first and then low luminosity mu plus mu minus later that that kind of, you know, scenario could be possible.
And then in that case we don't need so much mu minus you know that.
So so so we can think of some alternative scenario for mu minus quitting.
That would be also interesting to think about. For example this is getting crazy.
But anyway, so what are we are thinking right now is okay, we are crazy already.
But maybe that's how it this is even more great.
So this is, uh, you know, famous mu and cut that fusion scenario that, that, that tritium on deuterium.
And, uh, if you shoot that PD dp, if you will, you know, mu minus two is fuel.
You, you form this, uh, the bound state and this undergoes the diffusion almost 100% of time.
So mu is catched by this by almost 100% of time.
And this, you know, process happens almost 100% of time.
Much shorter time scale of the mu mu on lifetime.
And what's going to happen is that after the fusion, that ten k d mu -30 is going to be released.
So this is again one of the scenario that the you can shoot the mu on to if you will.
And we we we can wait me on mu minus or the mu minus to come out from the material.
Okay. We don't care about that, uh, fusion on the energy.
What do we care? Is this mu. You know that that's another use of my, um, catalyzed fusion, I think.
And this kind of experiment is going on at Jay Park, and, uh, they actually see that.
Well, this is simulation about 10%. And I think it could be realized by by getting.
Thank you. You know, but think maybe it's not the room temperature.
It's not that very cold, but, uh, how much we can get and how we can get this very interesting story,
but this is something as an alternative, which I think of.
So. Yeah. So so this is the concept demonstrate cube.
So we have our the say the one and the mu plus can be used for the demonstrator of this thing.
And then maybe demonstrator three for mu minus for the muon catalytic few jumping to get that this stuff.
So this will be a nice demonstrator business I think.
So yeah. So this is I think something I will not think of.
So once you know okay I was told that this.
So so this is very important.
So so uh, up to here, this is the contribution I could think of from Japan, but then we can think of the contribution of U.
To Japanese business. That is that okay. First we are we have already, uh, experimented with aiming to 200 MeV imu on beam with very low emitters.
Why don't you just contribute to this business to test your, you know, downstream thing before.
Having the demonstrator, for example, be monitoring and kind of thing you can test.
Yes.
So, so the, you know ahead of having demonstrator so that you can you if you are interested in the accelerator part of beam you know dynamics part,
you can directly go into this experiment and test.
You use this beam as a test of design. Uh, I mean, um, collider technology.
Yes. And, uh, this is also interesting that we, uh, we mean, Jay Park is thinking of having another target station as a time scale of ten years.
This is if accepting five kilowatts of 500 kilowatt or proton beam, three GB to 25 parts, and that they are trying to get a lot of buy on that.
And this is for mules. So this is basically the very first stage of immune that will be built and maybe built at the G Park within ten years.
You know, this is independent of me on this. You know, my own business.
They are thinking of this, uh, Target Station two.
So this is an interesting place to to think about, uh, you know, experiment form, um, for either 32 test, something like demonstrator also.
So this is that one news that you come up to here.
And also the comet experiment is being prepared and they they accept ATV beam and a lot of mu and pions, um, uh produced here.
And they add maybe as a, as a future comment experiment, we can think of putting cooling device here that gives you a very good,
you know, also, uh, good uh, beam for that combat experience.
So the comment is mutually convergent experiment.
If there is a nice beam, very good extinction rate that, uh, they are they are systematic uncertainties.
Very much a bit much better. So so the.
Yeah. But the including device here maybe a very interesting story.
So, uh, so the, the summary is that, uh, we look forward to having good collaboration between Japan and the US.
Thank you very. Thank you.
Thank you. Great talk. So, Christians. Christians.
Christians. Hi.
Thank you for the great talk. Um, so I'm fascinated by the mention of muon catalyzed fusion in this context.
Uh, there's been a lot of focus, both at the accelerator school earlier in the week and moving into the, uh,
meeting today about potential synergy, like research, uh, synergies between neutrino physics and the muon collider complex.
So I'm just wondering if, uh, if you could expound upon the potential synergy between, uh, muon catalyzed fusion research.
Is this something that we should be tuned into? Um, could it be good for political reasons?
Like, just. Could you talk about that? Yeah. I don't know anything about politics about that.
Oh, I think I think they are gonna be interested.
Of course,
the fusion Mu Mu minus team will be coming out and they they they are going to be interested and they are already doing this kind of experiment.
Yeah. Again this is happening when they're shooting the moon beam system if you will.
And they're trying to do the major the how much.
So this is really for me. Um, this is me. Um, that is fusion, but this is for me, um, even that that, you know, fusion scientists be thinking of me.
Including these. I think they do it so that when we already there's some, you know,
collaboration going on between this material science and this fusion business and so on for me.
Yeah, yeah, I think they are going to be interested anyway once you have new sources.
Oh, yeah. Yeah. Thanks for a great talk. I really found this.
Uh, the original is cooling. Fascinating since it was presented at northwestern in the fall.
Um, but I'm curious. I mean, this view, um, fusion cooling idea is awesome, but what about using the cooled positrons to capture the muons?
Is that yield too low, or could you do it that way? Uh, you mean with positron?
Oh, no. No, no, wait, that's actually you. Oh, I guess you could use the new one.
Great. Good. You're good. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. And then. Yes. If. Yes. Yeah.
If you have a total number of. Yeah. Positron. Yes. But but yeah we actually I thought about that and it's dude doodle.
Sorry. If you uh.
Yeah. Thank you for the talk. Uh, just a quick question on.
I was wondering if you could comment on, like, the timing because I know that ionization cooling is preferred,
uh, for being fast compared to other cooling methods. So I was wondering both for this muon minus, but also for the muon plus cooling.
Is there like kind of a time that you're shooting for. Is it comparable to ionization cooling?
Uh, timing. Yeah. Timing. I mean, uh, yeah.
Words are for lifetime. Oh, and, uh, I also meant like the.
So ionization cooling is fast compared to other, uh, more common cooling methods.
Faster. Meaning that, uh, yeah, I guess it manifests. Okay.
No no, no. Yeah, yeah. This is, of course, within the lifetime of muon so that, you know, if the decay loss by decay is negligible.
Oh, well, maybe not that. I know less than 50%, but this is 1000 times faster because it's only seven centimeters.
Right. Okay. Uh, let's thank our speaker again.
Great talk. And.
Thank you. Give you the time.
Good, good. Thank you very much.
So. Hello. Uh, I'm Taylor, and, uh, accurate.
You know, I am myself, not the official representative of Ecmc, but the slides are, uh.
And so I'm here to represent, uh, Daniel on the International Mule Collider collaboration.
And Daniel sends his condolences that he can't make it in person, but he is on zoom to answer any questions or clarify anything.
Uh, and I'm also there's the work here is representing about 450 people and many of these, uh, yourselves, uh, in this room.
So, uh, I'm going to talk about the Ecmc, uh, what it is, because there's a lot of young people who might not know, uh, the nuances.
And then I'm going to say roughly what we, uh, submitted to the European strategy overview of Ecmc progress,
which will be lightning because there's a lot. And then I'm going to most of the focus will be on the final messages at the end.
So I think we're all here because we have a very strong and compelling physics case.
And so a collider with ten times the energy of the Large Hadron Collider is crucial.
Uh, and so we are really here, uh, to, to study that.
And I think that's always going to be valid in all cases.
Um, and so, uh, at ESP you, I wasn't there in Venice, but Daniel was and, and many of you were.
And so the impact on precision physics and beyond standard models has been presented in the sessions.
Uh, and we expect that this will be, uh, we, we expect some support from the physics case.
And this will be continued. So the IMC, uh, is also relatively new.
It started in 2021, around 2022. Uh, and currently it's hosted by sun.
And we have 61 member institutions. And we're still growing in the US is still growing.
Uh, and then we'll have, uh, even more so when we have the CEO, some doe, uh, agreements.
And so our, uh, R&D program is very strong.
Uh, it's a global community, and we have a lot of accelerator efforts, in particular, uh, based at CERN in Europe.
And, uh, we're very excited by the strong and growing U.S. contribution.
And so the ICC would love to move to a position where we're co-hosting in Europe and the US.
Uh, now, the reason why we exist is from the previous Espoo, uh, which required muon collider integration into the accelerator R&D roadmap.
And actually, that roadmap is what we're working on at the moment.
Uh, and we're still we have 75% of this roadmap complete, uh, since the European strategy.
Uh, and just to say, uh, our relationship with Mukul, so Mukul is an EU horizons project and uh,
we have the same work packages, we have the same working groups.
And essentially the EU is there to check that we're doing our homework, uh, which we would otherwise be doing.
And so we have these milestones. We have these deliverables, uh, for Mukul.
But it's the work that we wants to be doing within IMC.
Uh, and so as the US recommendation, uh, US work continues, then we'll also be working closely with them.
And Imke is site agnostic. Uh, and so we're working towards the greenfield sites, uh, echoing a lot of what Soga says.
So we are really excited by the National Academy recommendation, by the US P5 recommendation.
Uh, we really agree with, uh, what all of these, uh, have been saying.
I won't read it out because it's already been quoted and read out, but it's also to echo the US inputs to Espoo,
is that the plan above requires adequate funding in both the US and Europe, and close collaboration between the two regions.
So that's exactly what we're doing here. That's what we're doing this week.
Uh, on the same with our annual meetings. Uh, and so close collaboration will only strengthen the muon collider.
So we will carry out the sovereignty together. We are developing, hosting these sites together.
And also, uh, we have plans to share leadership between both Sun and Fermilab as you guys are growing.
And it's great to see how much progress there's been in the last few years.
Uh, quick note on our organization. And so we have, uh, a series of working groups.
And so if you are wanting a, your own young person wanting to start,
then going to these working groups is a great place because that is where the meetings are happening and where the work is happening.
And then we talk to or we respond to, uh, a bunch of different boards, including collaboration boards,
steering board, coordination committee, uh, and currently the Song Council and the league.
But there is wiggle room to have other regional bodies, for example, the d.o.e., uh, if agreements come into place.
Uh, and also to say that within the coordination Committee, we have a group which is the work package leaders.
Uh, and so more of the US can join the coordination Committee, and it will evolve as resources become available.
The same for the steering board. So these are all 61 institutes and regions.
Uh, and if they're listed, it's because they're either signed or are in progress of signing the MOOC.
With us. And so we have representation. A lot of you guys in the US are also part of Ecmc.
We have a lot of European representation of course. And then we're always looking to expand our Asia representation.
And also it was great to see the talk. Just the very interesting ideas coming out from the Japanese community.
Uh, so what did we submit to the European submission?
So the SVP strategy process happens every, uh, five, six years or so.
And this year it was one year early. And so we presented the progress that we have been doing since the last European strategy.
And that's our physics case. That's our greenfield design.
We included all parameters.
And the fact that we're now walking, working towards a ten TV is very exciting because a lot of the progress has been through TV.
And so a lot of this most recent stuff in the 2020s has been focusing on this ten TV design.
And so as long as well as saying our progress, we've also been saying our R&D plan.
And that's what we want to do for the next seven years until the next European strategy, where hopefully we're going to be in an even bigger place.
And we also included the final chapter, our implementation considerations, both for sun and for Fermilab.
Uh, and these are very similar to the greenfield site.
We try and stay as close as possible to the same collider, other than what you need to actual for space.
And uh, and so we also have our timelines. We have a cost and power.
And I will show you these at the end. But just to say this was a hefty amount of work, 400 people, 400 pages.
Uh, and these are hyperlinked. So if you want to read our ten page summary, our 20 page addendum to the ESPN specific questions,
and our massive 400 page, um, paper we plan to publish, but Springer, then please do.
And I want to say that all of this came out from the last strategy where it was ten people, not 400 people.
Uh, and this also some of those ten people are in the room with us today as well.
Um, particularly Nadia. So I feel, uh, personal word from me.
I feel motivated knowing that so much grew from such an initial seed and that now we have such a big force behind us.
Uh, I can't see this motivation and this momentum decreasing.
So what did we submit? Uh, Sega also presented a lot of the physics that we, uh,
from our evaluation reports focusing on the full branches of precision precision from energy energy and muons and neutrinos.
And these plots have been shared widely before. Uh, our detector concepts also have been discussed before.
The fact we now have two detectors. Musicxml is a really amazing, uh, step.
And so the fact that we have these performance studies with giants, we're doing these MDIs and that we have I'm just arguing again,
the fact that we have good physics performance in spite of the Bob is incredible.
And so all of you guys continuing this work, uh, full optimization and integration is is crucial.
So now I'm going to quickly zip through, uh, the progress of the last, uh, for the accelerator.
I won't go through the challenges because Vladimir did a fantastic job earlier with that.
Uh, and also some of this I presented in the Monday talk at the Accelerator school, uh, proton complex.
We have, uh, very nice group working on this with a mix of CFC, a large group and s that are doing a lot of the contributions.
We have the design for our accumulator and our compressor rings,
and we have done our first collective effects on these designs, including space charge.
And that's great because that tells us the energy and the power that we can deliver to our target,
and we find that we can compress to this two nanosecond bunch and then merge it, uh, for the targets.
We have very large group based on. And so in SDF c, uh, and also a large magnet community in a and, and elsewhere.
And we have, uh, we have a new graphite target designed for two megawatts.
And I think that's incredible because beforehand we had merit.
We were talking about mercury, we're talking about liquid led, and we're still talking about liquid LED and fluidized tungsten.
But for the full megawatt, um, I think the, um, the graphite design is very nice.
We have a radio build, uh, and we're looking into the beam dynamics in the solenoid,
and we're looking into how to get the extracted proton beam that doesn't turn into muons and get it safely away.
And our components of have two megawatt beam. And we're studying these these higher power alternatives, the lattice design.
We have also much improved this design. And we've benchmarked BD Sym RF chat.
We're still working with G4. Beamline was still working with icMl.
We're started to look at collective effects in the cooling. And that's fantastic.
We are looking at the beam loading. We're starting to look at the Wakefield's, the impedances, uh, the space charges.
Uh, and we also have a very strong magnet group is now starting to look at the physical mechanical design of the 40 Tesla with the pancakes,
with the compression system to hold all of those forces in place.
And we're starting to build the first. Pancake coils. Uh, and I really want to see them.
Uh, so it's very exciting. Uh, and in principle, we have designs that could exceed our current performance targets.
Uh, and so improving the longitudinal. Uh, in particular.
And we have more students who are joining in October to continue the study of collective effects,
particularly in the absorber, which has never been looked at before.
But the cooling technology is really where all the challenges are. And so some of this, Mukul, you know, came out at the end of map.
Uh, and, and it's great we're still doing this progress.
And so hearing about the, the RF cavities in the uh, the type Tesla fields is great.
We need to continue to ramp this up. I really want to point out this beautiful engineering 60 design,
almost ready from a really great task force and work package eight, uh, including strong leadership.
And I am a fan. And so if we can learn and also, you know, join in on the integration of the cooling cell because that's really a hefty piece of work.
And that is crucial for the demonstrator, but also studying the beam dynamics that comes out of the integrated design.
Uh, and so we're ready to ramp this up. We're ready to start building prototypes.
And I'll mention this in the R&D plan. And we really we need to stop moving.
There's only so much we can do with our simulations, uh, and our conceptual ideas.
So then the UX, we have a really strong, uh, UX group that is, uh, at CERN and in CEA, soft play, uh, Paris, France.
Uh, and then we have FFA contributions all over, including, uh, the UK.
And so we have optimizations of phase.
We're studying the phase dynamics. We have strong lattices.
We have global parameters pretty much established for all full rings of the grain field.
And for three rings of the sun design, we've looked at the power loss that comes from the RF.
We've implemented 1.3GHz Tesla cavities into our simulations, including looking at higher order modes and looking at impedance studies,
uh, and making sure that we're really minimizing our longitudinal mutants across all of these stages.
Also really strong work in the magnets, in particular the power converters.
The fact you have to go from -1.8 Tesla to positive 1.8 Tesla, but you can do so with a power converter that doesn't need to change polarization.
Uh, and this is some really strong work as well.
And so we need to focus more now on the low energy acceleration, including the Linux and the relays, the collider ring as well.
Uh, we have uh, people in ABP at sun who are looking at the interaction points,
but also looking at the impedance models and the radiation in the beam pipe itself.
And so then we have a radio build of the collider lat um, beam pipe.
And that's also very exciting because then you can study your different thicknesses
of your various materials and then that links into your cryogenic loads.
Uh, then we also have the magnet designs. And really when it comes to the collider, the further we can push our magnets,
the better our luminosity, the smaller our circumference, the better repetition rate.
And so at this point, it's really whatever the limit is, we want to design for it.
And this means we need to start doing prototypes of these magnets.
Otherwise we don't know where that technological limit is. And so for the lattice design itself we need to further improve the energy acceptance.
Uh, what? We're okay with what the cooling gives us.
Uh, and now we're starting to address what happens to your, uh,
lattice and your optics when you have this kind of move system, which is gradually changing, uh, the objects of your system.
What is this move a system? It's for our placement studies.
And so we also have our geo profiler tool, which can model the ground and the materials that surround the collider.
And so we have an optimization of a position of the collider at CERN in order to ensure that the
neutrino flux that comes from both directions are in a reasonable area where they they land.
And then you can change the kind of spot size and the intensity of these muons by changing with, uh,
this moving system, but also looking at the angles, uh, in which you build your lattice design.
And so this is super complicated, iterating with your collider lattice,
then going into implementation and siting and then going into radiation and feeding all of this into a loop.
We're very close to a solution. We just need to keep iterating with the collider design.
So site specific designs. Uh, we have both for Sun and Fermilab.
Both of these have been included in the SVP reports.
Uh, and so for sun, we have landed on a design which has one UX in the SPS, two UX in the LHC.
The one in the SPS is normal, the two in the LHC are hybrid superconducting, and in doing so, with current technology, we can estimate 7.6 TV.
Uh, if we stretch further or add another third Arceus, uh, we can go to ten.
And TV, but at the moment we're really just looking at the 7.6 and then seeing what physics we can get from that.
And so the as a result, the only new tunnel you would need to build is the ten kilometer for the collider.
Everything else fully fits in the crevice on area. And we can also align it such that our experimental caverns are also once on land.
And so I think this compactness is a very good benefit for us.
Uh, and I'd love to see how the Fermilab site evolves. So then we can continue adding your latest diagrams, uh, onto our slides as well.
Uh, so our cost in our power scale have also been published in the strategy document.
These are not top down from the parameters. These are really bottom up.
We got from every single optics designer the number of magnets, the number of RF cavities, the strength, the lengths.
And really to lead up each thing.
Uh, and then also got our uncertainty from this number and from uncertainties on what we can get from those magnets,
from those RF cavities, from the lengths of the systems. And the same with the power.
If you have the field of your magnets and the strengths of your cavities.
This is telling you about our power consumption. And so these are not kind of pulled out of nowhere.
This is really from the lattices that we're currently working with.
Uh, and so uh, yes, as I say, it's from known components, from our conceptual design.
Uh, and from beam loss studies, from cryogenics. And there's always more work to be done.
As Vladimir showed, the amount of uncertainty and our luminosity is huge and our luminous and our uncertainty and our costing is the same,
you know, so further R&D is going to shrink the uncertainties on those bars.
The red line is kind of arbitrary. Once the bars shrink, then we know we're getting closer to where our costing is.
So then we have our time line. Uh, just flashing it up briefly.
Most secured is the ten year R&D plan. And that's what we're aiming for with the strategy is to get the next year
down so we can do all R&D programs so we can create technology demonstrators.
And if we get the green lights at these particular t0, t1, t2 times, then we get this timeline which ends at uh 2050 for starting run one.
And so this is driven by the R&D. This is technically limited which means not funding dependent, not politics dependent, but it is the most ambitious,
um, example to define our R&D and assumes firm commitment to the muon collider as a flagship after HELOC.
Um, and assuming successful R&D.
Uh, so it's the and we've applied the uncertainties that we would expect and in the US, uh, to become leader at the energy frontier.
Our R&D program is really the thing that we're counting on in the next ten years.
And so we have full branches from our R&D program. The accelerator design we've been talking about for decades, having a start to end design.
And we're probably almost there soon. The hardest part is the linking between all of these subsystems.
Uh, and so that's necessary to determine our performance and how to optimize between all these different systems.
The cooling technology I showed the implementation in the engineering diagram.
And we need this hardware in order to continue, especially RF test stands.
We need to look at the instrumentation we're going to have for the cooling. Uh and so and also for the detector improving physics reagent magnets.
I'll show you the range of magnets. We have this in the some of the extra slides.
It's huge. And and so we need to work with industry on this. Overall 300 million francs material 1800 FTE is for the accelerator.
Uh, 20 million for the detector, 950 is, uh, for the detector is a huge numbers.
We'll see what we get. Demonstrator.
Uh, so this is the timeline I showed, and this is the timeline for the demonstrator.
And circle also showed with the RF test stands and the modules.
Uh, and so for the sun designed for CTF three, we really have taken the left injector and we've looked at the target area,
the chicane, the preparation line and the cooling cells.
Uh, and so I'm putting this up here so that when you start to look at the Fermilab demonstrates a, you know,
there are people we can talk to who have started to think about these problems, including civil engineering questions, etc., right way forward.
So implementing our proposed R&D plan, sharing of work between our partners and uh, we need to share the load between all these different partners.
That's instrumental. Any additional funding sources are going to help.
And strong support of ongoing ASP is important. Uh, and the US support is fantastic.
And and if we can turn this into resources, we're going to be smooth sailing.
Even more so we have a task force to implement this.
Uh, and we're starting to look at our synergies with industry, including fusion reactors and Infineon for, uh, the power converters.
And we're very excited that we have these agreements and also that we have a strong a big community in
Europe and in the US of early career experts who are motivated by the fact that this is difficult.
So what are we going to do? We have. R&D Task Force.
We have an existing R&D plan from 2022, and we have a new one for which we want to implement.
Practically, this is the list of magnets.
The list of RF cavity is the list of cooling in the list of design things that we would need to do in those ten years.
Sharing of work between partners. Uh, obviously we will have funding uncertainties.
Let's do the best we can integration into other programs and other co-funding.
Um, and also, it's great if we know of any other R&D efforts that are going on and making sure we have communication between
working groups and help support early career researchers who might be starting these new R&D efforts.
So it's great to know the work that will happen here.
So to conclude, we've made amazing progress in the since 2021, in spite of the fact we don't have that many resources.
And it's from the motivation and the enthusiasm of our communities that we can make this absurd amounts of progress,
as we say, one year or seven years of how much work we're doing.
And we have a global R&D program that we have proposed, and we hope it gets funded and we'll see.
Uh, so also to say our, um, external advisory committee was impressed by our significant progress, the improvement in the robustness of the collider,
and that this is a huge technological opportunity and all major technology challenges are being actively tackled.
And if we launch our demonstrator and test on program, it will be crucial to continue this momentum.
So we would love to see the we love see the US resources, any resources you can ramp into the accelerators.
Fantastic. I know you guys want the same as well. Uh, support from the ESP youth program is great and additional global support is fantastic.
So thank you very much. What is open?
I think so. Nice summary. Taylor. Um, so I have kind of maybe a provocative question about the funding.
You said very early in the talk that this would require large contributions from both European and US based,
and likely whoever else would like to contribute. Um, that's sort of the story that all future projects are talking about.
So this is not a statement to say that it can't be done,
but how do we make sure that the messaging for future projects is not one thing needs to happen at the expense of the other?
Because I feel like that's the most obvious conclusion that you can have, right,
is when any one project needs contributions from everyone, it seems like only one can happen.
And that's not the message we want to push. That is a provocative question.
Uh, I'll say something quick.
Maybe Daniel has a comment in that that, uh, messages and communication come from us,
but the decisions come from a strategy board to review everything.
And so the message that currently giving is what is a priority and a priority is the only thing.
Uh, so I share your concerns, uh, that that's the current message that's been given.
Uh, and I don't know if Daniel's on line and has an additional comment.
Yeah. I don't know if you can hear me. We can hear you. Yes, you can hear me?
Yes. Okay, great. Um, yeah.
No, I think the concern is valid. It's an obvious thing that some big projects do, um, all the time, that they need everything in the last little bit.
So I think we have to give the message that this is an important project.
Um, in Europe, there is not yet any decision on the FCC.
I mean, that it's very likely that there will be an attempt to have the FCC funded that may fail, and then something smaller might come.
And in the US, um, the muon collider could come, uh, even if the FCC is being built.
So so there is a need to develop the muon collider.
But I agree, we have to make sure that his message is understood.
And it's actually also respected. And so some that resources are still available.
Yeah, that's a challenging task in the future. It's a challenging task.
Also adding another puzzle moment for me. I really believe that, you know, Collider is inevitable.
Uh, it doesn't have to be 50 years. It can be 100 days.
It can be 200 years. But this is the direction we have to go in particle physics.
Uh, and so we're doing this as a service for help. That's, uh, that's my hashtag.
Why I'm here on Collider. Uh, yeah.
Uh, other questions. Uh, can I also flash a slide if, uh, no other questions.
Uh, this diagram here, uh, I don't have maps.
This is I'm CC diagrams. I hope this is a community resource.
If anyone has any additions to the accelerator and you want it to be included, uh, please let me know and we can discuss,
for example, uh, Caroline and others, you'll see that we are, uh, implementing the initial cooling.
And so then we had the initial cooling.
And so the reason I made this is so it can be flexible and added to, uh, and so this expands to the US community as well.
Uh, I just wanted to say that very quickly. Uh, currently one version, 1.5, but the versions will change, uh, as we continue to develop our design.
Okay. If there are no other questions, let's thank Rebecca and all speakers of this session.
