# Theory: Parallels

and [INAUDIBLE] tell us about towards realistic predictions for weak bosons as part of the muon.
Thank you very much. Uh, thank you for the invitation. And I do have two sides.
So just poke me and tell me that I'm going too late, and I'll just stop.
Um, okay. I'm really happy to finally be at one of the US muon collider meetings.
I've been working on the on collider stuff and in the context of, uh, PDFs and just, uh, 2 to 2 processes for a while.
So I'm actually happy to share some of the stuff that some is old, some of you, um, but it's built over a period of time and,
um, information and ideas and, uh, the, the big picture is this, which I think for, uh, actually quick question.
Can you in the back here so you can hear me are great.
Um, this is a picture that I literally stole from Peskin and Schroeder from the, uh, the cover of the his textbook.
Um, he was actually happy that I did, um, and and the the big idea of my, uh, my program.
What we're trying to do is to realize at the end of a four consequence, uh, quantum field theory.
Gauge theory. And it's this picture and this idea that physical particles, physical muons, electrons,
are dressed in the sense that that means that they they have a bit of fuzziness inside them that,
you know, quantum mechanics says that if you have the same, you know, quantum numbers, you know,
that that the what you observed is a collection is a linear combinations of eigenstates.
Um, special relativity says that if you have enough energy, some of these more heavier states can be populated into reality.
And so the the idea is, uh, you know, muons carry weak gauge charges, like the electron, like quarks.
And so therefore, at sufficiently high energies, w neutrino pairs are populated in element, you know, in physical particles.
And this is the core idea behind the effective approximation, all that stuff.
Um, the tricky thing is, unlike QED and QCD, electric uh, sectors spontaneously broken.
What does that mean? It means that they have a mass and these are the vacuum expectation value.
And therefore you know, these these you need energy star populated.
So the the ultra open question that we actually haven't seen it, this goes back to oh when a new low was seen last night.
Is that is is it actually true.
Is there some hard scattering scale a collision scale above which massive Z bosons behave like masses, photons, masses, gluons.
You know, electro symmetry breaking is broken. It's not going to be restored unless you get to a higher temperature.
But it can behave and act cinematically like photons and gluons.
And so the question is whether or not this is actually there.
Um, it's kind of funny because we have to gently stumbled on to some evidence, uh, that the hard, scattered scale might be at 1 or 2 TeV.
Um, and I think, you know, this this is a I think many people on these posit, uh, been seen by many people.
Uh, you know, I, I want to give some context to the plot. And so what I'm showing, for example,
is a cross section as a function of collider energy for s channel processes and their vector boson scattering analogies.
And so the, the dashed lines going down are the S channel diagrams.
I collectively just call them s channel. And those that are rising are vector boson scattering.
And so you have single Higgs production, Z Higgs, WW Higgs Z.z.
And you see this, uh, trend that eventually the scattering rate cross section for vector boson scattering is going to,
uh, dominate and exceed the scattering rate for channel processes.
And this is, uh, now understood. Well, this is well understood.
If you look at these sort of vector boson like topologies, there are more final state lays.
And so what does that mean? It means that there are more propagators with momentum flowing.
And so if you do this phase space integration over the propagators, you're generating these logarithms.
And the idea is that if you go to a larger collider energies, you're getting a larger hard scale scale, uh, in very mass scale.
And so you don't go like one over X, you go like log of the very mass scale.
So at some point you just wrap it up and the increased space means the collinear, uh,
emissions of W and Z is compensated for the, uh, we couplings, the increase of couplings.
So this is known I mean, this is a this is stuff back from the 80s and through the 90s and 2000.
There are many papers by the Wisconsins, by the Michigans, by the Brookhaven,
by the companies that had anecdotal evidence for their individual process.
But now we have resources. We have the Belgian server.
Serves a CMS customer. Um, so we we just through processing power.
And what did we do? We looked at cross section as Funtion clutter energy for top production or RTC gigs.
And again we saw this this trend. You know there there are typos on try boson.
Um I'm not sure if the for boson production actually made it to the paper.
I don't think so because we've got some instabilities. Uh, here's a charge, you know, for production.
Uh, just for reference. And, uh, here's a single plus Z to show that this isn't just standard model.
Strict standard model, you know, simple, uh, simpler extensions, well known extensions that,
um, have this behavior to, you know, what we had, what we were able to say, you know,
rather, um, rather broadly is, uh, you know, there is this universal trend, you know,
there's evidence for trend that vector boson scatter rates will always exceed as channel rates.
Um, and so, you know, we we we got this we, we had all of these results.
And then the question is, was this obvious? And I'm sure there's a very clever person there, clever people.
Chris Melnikov. Uh, apparently this is a very obvious term, as I learned a few weeks ago.
Uh, but it wasn't to me. Um, I'm not smart enough.
Uh, but there is intuition and it goes back to a prestigious paper and the, the, the, the conjecture that we that formed up,
that formed at the end of the day was that this increasing vector boson scattering rate,
this is a manifestation of the growing photonic content that we, uh, we, we know in, uh, the renormalization program of the Standard Model.
You. So. Okay. What does that mean? How do we how do we actually support evidence for this conjecture?
And so the idea was to crudely compare the scatter rates for your favorite final state by
trying to write your vector boson scatter cross-section in terms of the original process.
And this way you can just take a ratio and say, if this picture is larger than something, then it works out.
Um, and so, you know, uh, because we know kinematics and dimensional analysis,
we just kind of estimated that the mass channel process, like phase space closure over the channel propagator.
We assume that we are well beyond the WS mass. And it looks like that.
So, um, f is the invariant mass of the your favorite final state with cuts without cuts, whatever you want to do.
For the vector scanner process. Again, we wanted to just do this crude approximation.
So we estimated the scanner rates using a essentially the Z PDFs.
And so the differential scattering will look like the PDFs here.
You know if we go back to the vector topology you see inside this big process, there's a smaller sub process that looks like a 2 to 1 scattering.
So we just treated that like two and scattering. Uh.
And we, we, we just kind of massaged things and assumed that the WWE and mass was still larger than the mass and all that stuff.
And then we just plugged in things and made sure that we introduced enough factors so that we can expect as expressed,
the factor wasn't scattered rate in terms of the s kind of right. So we do we just multiply two divided by factors of one.
Um, what we do for QCD uh, to gauge uh gauge theory.
Uh, for masses uh masses gauge theory is that the PDFs are largest when the energy fraction carried by the the vector boson is small,
it's the energy itself is large, but the relative energy, the fraction is small.
And so you can just take the, the the crude approximation, the low x uh, small z limit.
And this is the PDFs that we plugged into there.
Um, what's kind of stupid is that if you plug this into this formula, it actually is a solvable integral like you keep running in Mathematica.
It's not expected that. And like, oh, you got an analytic stuff.
It looks messy. Um, but it's solvable if you, you make this assumption that the scattered mass is quite large and it looks like this.
And so what does this say?
It's saying that vector grows on scattered rate becomes larger than the channel rate when you're hard scattering rate and you're
invariant or on term when the collider energy your w mass and the hard scattering scale that that you're interested in obeys is sort of,
uh, formula. Um, this is just a naive, crude approximation.
But what was really surprising is that it worked to the 10% level.
Now order magnitude. That's great. You know, uh, factor of uh, 100 is it's not ideal, but we were able to estimate.
Clearly when this crossover points to the 10% level, and this actually causes more problems than we anticipated.
Because essentially we're saying that the naive approximation of the vector presence scattering use,
you know, trying to model a vector boson, scattering the full matrix only with PDFs.
It works too well. So then the scientists in us, you know, we remember chatting with Fargo.
We were just like, this works too. Well, it's it's no longer an accident, no longer coincidence.
And so what did we do? We actually implement started implementing this into mad graph.
So, uh, since, uh, 2000, you have something available at lowest order.
Wizard. Congrats to them. They finally have the paper out.
I know they've been pushing it for a while. It's just a people power and all that stuff.
And so the the factorization formula that we use is very similar to to what we see for the collisions.
And that's intentional there where we're trying to make this parallel, um, and that you have muons colliding to your favorite funnel data.
So it looks like that and it's inclusive. So you assume that you're just includes respect to these spectators.
And so just one P to the hard scattered scale. Plus you have your uncertainties.
And if you actually expand this and go through your favorite textbook and um, collider physics, uh,
our Phillips, for example, uh, you start recognizing the, the you have the face based integrals.
These are convolutions or the PDFs and the heart, uh, scattering.
Major tournament leading order. You have some perturbative parallel corrections because the PDEs are analytic.
You can you know, it's the the weak theory. So they're perturbative.
You can calculate them, but you're still doing things in the collinear approximation.
And then there's the stuff because we're only working at leading order.
And that's fine. You know it's it's the electroweak theory. We don't expect to have to go to next to leading order electroweak theory for Collider.
That doesn't exist yet. Um, when it exists, maybe we'll be interested.
Um, I was into um, so here here's an example.
You know, here's a Higgs production, uh, with the vector was on fusion, uh,
summing over all polarizations of your favorite processes, uh, as a function collider energy.
So w h gamma age double two, Higgs is three, Higgs is four, Higgs is top production.
And, uh, there are many, many more plots. The money which actually got us, uh, which which I spent way too much time thinking about, uh, was this.
And so here we're considering, for example, longitudinal scattering into Higgs.
It turns out that the Higgs production, um, you plus B minus or, uh, new equations technically is what we did.
It's at it's dominated at like the 90% level or 99 and 95% level by which, you know, scattering.
So we can essentially ignore the transverse contribution here.
And so, uh, for, for ignore this top curve up here, what I want to draw your attention is the, the lower curve.
So the saga's line is I'm sorry, this is the invariant mass of the di Higgs system,
uh, which by momentum conservation is the number of mass of the system.
And the solid line here is the full matrix element.
That's the correct answer. The dashed line.
That's the the using the PDF picture.
And, you know, a larger bird mass is bang on.
And then when you get to, uh, lower and error masses, you get this discrepancy from having high two handed high differential cards.
We, we we took things further and we were really, really we we couldn't quite figure this out.
And then we had the really silly idea. Uh, okay. Suppose it's really tied to the massiveness of and sees, um, how am I with time?
Two minutes. All right. Um, if it's really tied to the massiveness of these, uh, then, you know, let's just reduce the bad.
We let's, you know, this upper curve.
We just took the that divided by a factor of ten and systematically changed, uh, couplings and all that stuff and that that discrepancy disappeared.
So the takeaway was that the disagreement between the picture and the information was tied to these masses,
and this was sort of an accidental, uh, um, evidence.
And so what we, you know, and then I had my kid, I disappeared for a couple of years, hemmed and hawed, walked back and forth ages and ages,
and had a fun thought with, uh, you know, who was just walking around, um, that maybe maybe it really or these power frictions.
And so what what do I mean? When you derive these PDFs, you're doing the leading log approximation,
but they're, you know, you're you're doing a linear expansion in the opening angle.
And so there are these order one terms if you include the four leading powers.
So this would be. To get back at some.
Okay. Okay. Um. And the idea was to keep track of these extra terms.
Um, the unexpected results. Um, is, uh, introducing these extra terms.
This causes all kinds of pathologies. Like things went to [INAUDIBLE], the PDFs went to negative PDFs at leading order.
Are positive definite by construction. So the fact that things were going negative, this is telling us that we're getting into kinematic regimes that,
um, we're unphysical, such as we're violating the assumptions that the produce vector boson was on show.
We were finding out that the if you had poor choices at the cutoff scale, you're actually taking yourself out of the collinear limit.
And so the point is that we, we we turned this on its head.
We, you know, we consider these sort of corrections to be toxic. You want them to be zero.
And if you want them to be negligible then that forces you to a well-defined kinematic regime.
And version two, uh, long story short, is that we got it bang on within 10%.
So, uh, here are some more plots. Here's some more plots.
Um, and the results suggest the following conjecture. When, uh, initial state vector boson carries a large part, uh, energy in the proton,
etc. mass frame when it carries a small relative pt uh relative to its parent, and when the the the mental variables are comparable to hard process,
it seems that we're actually seen in our calculations, finally,
that full achievable processes can be decomposed into fragmentation functions and in other words, factorized subprocesses.
Um, there there are many things, you know, the to to show further evidence.
And so the final slide essentially in my talk is that while there are many challenging tasks,
uh, remain, there's no clear roadmap for achieving fully differential,
fully exclusive simulation Monte Carlo simulations that we're so familiar with that you only see, um,
at least at lowest order, because we the PDFs are well known and people have been working on these for a while.
The the hard matrix elements, I think this is now under control.
So this is the new stuff. Uh, we're missing a full, complete part on shower, but I'll let you guess what my grant application is about.
Um, but the cool thing is that it's it's like, yeah, applicable to the LHC.
So thank you. And, well, welcome to the Pittsburgh session. Thank you.
This was then. This is for now, actually. Okay, so we have time for a couple of questions.
So when you do it is splitting functions, right? Um, so the final state doesn't necessarily need to be on shell.
But then you discuss something where you, you needed the, um, the w that we're using beyond the shell that needed or so you're talking about.
You know, if you have an interesting beyond producing a vector boson and you want to do WW scattering, uh,
whether or not that's considered on shell, um, in the that's, uh, here, let me, let me go to the factorization formula.
That's uh, I like that question because it's, uh, it's tricky.
Um, by construction, you assume that it's on shell here, and that means you're doing on shell.
You're treating it like an asymptotic state. And that's the crux of factorization, is that you're treating things like asymptotic states, masses.
Particles are massless in the asymptotic limit. That's why there's no factorization theorem because these are not massless.
And you know, in least in the asymptotic limit, when they're infinitely long, they or after infinite amount of time it's probably the indicates.
That is the subtlety.
Uh, so formally they should be treated as on shell states that the, the, the scattering scale is small compared to their lifetime.
So under that assumption, uh, the, the impulse approximation, actually, if you go back to classical physics, um, it's on show here.
Um, there's a bit of trickery about, uh, what's going on here.
This, uh, the two derive things. You, uh.
Uh, where.
Uh, for the PBS is splitting, uh, when you do the phase based integration over the kinematics of the final state, that is actually the virtuality.
So what you should do is keep it small so that it's that the difference between its virtuality and its mass is negligible, and that's that.
So it's not it can be slightly off shell and but it it's your results should be robust about that.
And the issue that the conflict that we were finding in other papers is that they were taking this factorization scale to be arbitrary, large.
And so you're technically taking it to be not only a large but large virtuality.
And you have an inconsistency and a breakdown of the calculation.
That's why things that a lot of people's results couldn't match onto each other. Oh thank you.
So one very fast comment. Oh comment.
Order your PDF to interactive.
I mean what's the reason I know how to deal with, uh, the I mean, the reason is that these corrections are pathological.
I mean, it's a you're violating I mean, the fact that it goes negative, that's kind of a bit of a lock, but, um,
but at the end of the day, things are blowing up because you're going you're taking yourself out of the linear limit.
Um. Whether or not it's negative or positive.
But here's an example. So this is the PDA as a function momentum fraction.
And you see that the PDFs are actually turning on as you're closing phase space as you're getting to a smaller positive energy.
So this is this is momentum conservation.
But the PDFs have these higher order terms that if you include them there, they're consistently taking into account momentum conservation.
So if you go down to small energies you don't have enough energy to produce an onshore W.
And so what happens is it's shutting off. But because that's also when these higher order terms it doesn't stay zero.
It goes way past zero. All right, so we should thank Richard again.
And next speaker, for those of you who is running away.
As I am stressed and just planners there, make sure that it's doing what it's supposed to do.
There's also a physical pointer over here. People are like, oh, now you tell me how to get it.
So we're ready when you are. All right. So hello everyone.
Uh, 20, 23rd March. We had, uh, Santa Barbara.
Uh, there was a lot of worship. And then some people, including Gentile, then, were saying things like, oh, he's not there.
Oh, no, he's not here. He's everywhere. They're saying things like, uh, you know, these people like what?
It feels like nuclear and and astro that they get so much money and all they do is tell them what it's.
Worth. Whereas we put the bar up like, oh, you know, supersymmetry and extra dimensions and sort of nature and like.
But what, like what what kind of. That's sort of like where these papers, uh, we're born is like.
So what are these deliverables that are guaranteed for the new collider that are within the standard model and that, you know, could be very exciting?
Uh, maybe I didn't do a good job on that. And then you can complain to me, and, uh, that's fine, but if not, then.
Okay. So, uh. Uh, yeah, yeah.
So, uh, I like to show this slide, uh, because I like to quote, uh, my friend Chris, uh, you know, I learned particle physics with this book.
Uh, so say my my friend Chris, uh, sounds very good. It feels good.
Uh, but, uh, we will use something. What's going to happen at the LHC?
We knew that, uh, we. Like I did find something pretty much like the Higgs or the weak interaction going bananas at that one thing,
like something was going to happen that outside guaranteed, uh, deliverable.
And then so we find the Higgs and we cross this, uh, kind of like the questions that we had before the LHC.
Uh, but now we have so many more questions, and it seems like the Higgs plays a central role in many of these questions.
They they had anything to do with the electroweak symmetry breaking.
Uh, the flavor, either you call us, they break this function.
So, like, the Higgs is at the center of many of these questions.
So the one obvious path for the next collider is to, you know, put the Higgs on the microscope and then study to death.
And this is what these people have been doing.
Uh, this, that you see this the very good paper is here showing us how the new collider will will bring down the Higgs prediction.
Uh, the company's down to the percent of some percent level.
Yeah. There's another another plot like that. What now? Even the invisible branching of the 21% level of precision.
But, uh. But that's very good. That's amazing. That's awesome.
And and ideas. What else? And I'm not saying anything new.
Okay. So in the literature you're going to see people talking about this.
Uh, uh, but these are electroweak, uh, is this paper by Adrien and I work with, uh, André.
A very nice work. Uh, there's also, uh, people talk about electroweak radiation, and then you, us, uh, muon stops and things like that.
Right? So, uh, I just want I want to add a couple more, uh, to this list and, uh, let's see, let's see.
So for this first one, this, um, this is a little trivial, what we say here, but, uh,
let's bear with me and then maybe you get ideas to how to, uh, how to do this better.
Okay. So so we just had, uh, we just had, uh, talk about this splitting functions and how from a particular initial state,
you can have any other, uh, initial state.
So the means that they do that. Right? It's it's split, split, split.
And you can have. So then the initial state of uh, uh, the gauge bosons, maybe some of you are not, um, familiar with this, but, uh, yeah.
Like this. Do a bit. This would be like the photon contents of the muon beam.
Uh, w, uh, gauge bosons here, they dominate when, uh, x is small.
Yeah. Uh, and then but then there's, there's two and one is the dominate with X is is large or approaches uh,
one which is of course the muon content of the muon beam and then the neutrino content of the beam.
Because, uh, to get a neutrino, you just need one split time and that's it you already got into.
So this component is large. Uh, and here you can see the high energies.
Then, uh, the, the neutrino content now is even, uh, larger than even the photon content.
So it's easier to split again, the Trino than to admit the photon at this, uh, large x.
Yeah.
So you say some prediction of the standard model, and we ask this question of like, uh, uh, so there's this other initial states, uh, even gluons.
Uh oh. I should have cited you. So. I think I sent you somewhere here.
I thought you found that, huh? Yeah. So then does it go on and then hits us as well?
Yeah. So we we ask the question.
So what would represent a measurement of, for example, the neutrino content of the moon.
Well that. Doesn't make sense.
You you might argue it doesn't make sense, but we're trying to make sense of it.
And so we did the simplest the dumbest thing that you can think of just uh, imagine do.
So from the neutrino content of the beam, you get a process where the W is in this channel.
And then if you have something to tag, like an electron, uh, you, you can,
you can draw the distributions of the PT of the electron missions that rapidity,
uh, you see things like, for example, we're calling signal, which is this is the collinear contribution of a full collinear neutrino.
And the background is everything else.
And uh, what we see here is that as you increase the g, meaning you are approaching one in this direction, this is happening here.
So the all these both on induced content contributions, they, they go tiny.
Whereas this one kind of like, uh, it decreases but not as fast.
Yeah. So you can, you can draw a map between these distributions, but also you can, you can do it with, uh,
fully constructible final states that assume you can construct the W and even Typekit that is a W, uh, let's say from now until three years ago.
And then, uh, so then then then then you can fully reconstruct the final state, meaning you can know exactly what's the X.
So you measure this final state, you know what fraction of momentum is coming from, from, from each, uh, of the initial state, right.
Uh, so then so, I mean, you can compare rates, but you could also do with spectral spectral shapes.
Right. And in particular for the, uh, w gamma, there's this, uh, radiation on the, the zero,
which is, uh, an exact zero in the cross-section for some angular value here.
And, uh, so this is how things look at their true level.
Nicely beautiful. Three level. Uh, here we try to see how would this look?
Uh, the glider.
Uh, so you, you require one of the values to be within this nozzle cone, and then you reconstruct the other w with the width of the neutral vector.
Wilson. And then, uh, go go through the center of mass of the system and measure the angle of either of the D.
And yeah, you kind of see the zero. So it's like a couple orders of magnitude in a dip.
So we're saying a combination of rates and this map between, uh,
x and and so on and a combination of that and spectral features, then that corresponds to a measurement of the entropy of.
So. So now for electric restoration.
Um, so I noticed that and, and and said they, they showed, uh, blood flow from our paper, but that blood doesn't mean anything, really.
So here I'm trying. I made a new plot that would hopefully mean something.
And then again, you can yell at me if you want. And, uh, let's see what happened.
And then this is like. So we have the idea.
We have the they, the the intuition, uh, the notion that, uh, uh, uh, at high energies or more specifically, right at, at high temperatures,
right in a hot universe, the heat potential does this flow from, from this shape into a shape where the symmetry is restored?
We understand like intuitively, we can compute the the x potential and we understand this.
But but then the question is, uh. How could we?
How could we measure in a collider? That would be sort of like a map of that.
I will. What? Does it make sense? Yeah. So same as the previous, uh, idea.
Does that even make sense? Uh. Let's see. So, so the the idea is to have, like, some sort of order parameter, right?
That, you know, when in condensed matter, that is nice order parameters that work when the temperature drops below a certain critical temperature,
you see one phase and above you see another phase. So, uh, if you want to do this with the standard model, you need to heat up the universe.
And we cannot do that. Right. So what can we do with a on a collider.
So so here's where we're going back to this uh, uh, diversion distributions.
Yeah. And, you know, showing you these are the transfer components of the the transfer polarizations of the gauge motions.
Yeah. You did you see again the the radiation zero, uh, here in red.
And I'm showing you that only do you know that only two, uh, polarizations of the gauge bosons and they have this, uh, symmetric shape.
And then W Higgs, look at W Higgs, uh, and at low energies this is like uh invariant mass.
You can think of this as invariant mass of the final state. Yeah.
So it's low energies. Uh, clearly the energy to the gauge bosons in cross-section doesn't match with the W Higgs.
And. But then when you go to high energies. You see that they do manage.
Right. And we understand these, right?
Because, uh, we understand, uh, the theory and we know that, uh, these longitudinal modes, they are coming from something like these.
There's a vertex where this thing here is it's coming from.
If you look at the the Higgs doublet right here, is this the charged Goldstone and this is the,
uh, CPE or the, uh, component of the neutral, uh, component of the Higgs here.
And whereas this transition w the Higgs is coming from, uh, the same the Goldstone down to the CB,
uh, CB even so, it's basically so it's the gauge interaction.
It's interaction in actual is this is that is the W connecting two members of uh, it's a two multiplied uh,
and and because there's no like numerical coefficient here distinguishing these two, uh, what you get is exactly it's exactly the same.
You should have the same uh, like these two transition. They should just be the same.
Just given by the symmetry. Uh, so so this is this.
So the fact that these two are matching is, is, in a sense,
is a manifestation of the restoration of that symmetry that the w connecting two components of the,
of openness to two involvements and uh, and okay, but then uh, and then,
and then you say, well, why would the then why, why at low energies uh, doesn't happen.
Yeah. So the polarization vector included a mode, you can think of it like this is like,
uh, is a component that looks like a pure goldstone, but then there is,
uh, component that has, uh, some energy dependance and it you just need to go to high enough energies to see how this,
uh, becomes just, uh, uh, irrelevant.
And, uh, and so that's, that's what's happening here. So but can we tag that between the components.
Is a vector both of them. Um, maybe not. Right. Uh, so maybe, maybe we cannot measure this ratio.
Uh, maybe we can replace that and, and have a ratio of these cross-sections inside the radiation zero region.
So if you focus on this angular region what dominates is the longitudinal mode.
So there is some contamination from the transport modes okay.
But it's kind of like a proxy for uh, pure longitudinal modes, uh production.
So maybe maybe that ratio. Tell us something about. The other day.
Not. So these two cross-sections being different at low energies in equal at high energies.
And that's more or less what's happening here. That maybe this I am a better version of this plot.
Uh, well you can still improve. So this is more or less that.
So say this is the environments of the final state w x, either Z or Higgs.
And so you go at low energies. Now this ratio, even if it's the pure thing that we can um, measure, uh that ratio uh, is different from one.
But then as you go to high energies,
that ratio should match one for some reason is not matching one here is like I think I added some other amount like that.
That's, that's I was doing this, I know this for this other mode.
And I also know the contribution. Maybe I added those to that until I get back to you.
But yeah, the fact that it plateaus now, it's telling you, is a manifestation of this restoration of the issue to this two transitions as you do it.
And this is what I'm saying. So in the proxy ratio, uh, it's kind of doing the same thing.
So when, when I say when, when you start plateauing, I say, uh, bingo.
That's that's where the symmetry is being restored. Uh, so kind of like drawing this parallel here.
Uh, so I think this is a little better than what we showed in the until.
But, uh, maybe it was getting put out. So I would like to hear your suggestions to improve this.
Uh, and that's it. Uh, yeah. So thank you.
Thank you. So we have time for questions. Uh, okay. Yeah.
Thank you. Wonderful. Can you go back to your this year? These these plots?
I had one before, and not one. One before.
Oh, okay. Yeah. I didn't figure out this and this.
Are you my interest in this course and for the issue?
I mean, location, should it depend on your kinematics? Means still variable.
What do you. When you increase that? Everybody seems the same.
Location doesn't change. What's the kind of reason for that?
Uh, something, uh, three level delegation only depends on on charges on gay charges.
But you the agree to itself goes to zero. And it's just that you make some approximation here.
It must be mass somewhere. No, no, no three levels.
It's an exact zero. And it just the charges. Yeah.
Okay. Why do you have the approximation there? So, uh.
Oh, wait. Uh, you know, take them off of US limits or what?
Uh oh, wait, that's a good point. Where you as the approximation.
So there there usually are some things. If you work in the center of mass frame, then it's fine, but it is, uh, frame dependent.
But then it's something that you usually can reconstruct as, so it stays consistent so long as you are in the same frame.
And it is a it's an exact cancellation. Um, essentially two antennas, two electric antennas are canceling.
That I don't remember was approximation in this. Okay.
Thank you. I think you said most of Idaho would.
I don't think it's expect to. Go back to you.
So Richard has a question. Yeah. Can you go to the where you show the Higgs potential, please?
I'm not convinced that you're actually proving a regime in which you have restored electric symmetry, because the W's do still have mass.
You're just in a regime in which the mass energy terms are zero are tiny or tiny that you can be.
And that's different from being in the in the unbroken phase, because the masses are still not, are finite.
Um, furthermore, I am unsure how well you'll be able to see this, because if you then go to your,
uh, polarization vector expression, um, polarization vector, uh, and one more.
Yes. Uh, so if you're dropping the mass over e terms, which are, uh,
due to the fact that it's a gauge boson, it's been one gauge bosons have always been one gauge.
Bosons have a longitudinal. It's just whether or not it vanishes when it's on show is, uh, is different.
Sorry. If that's vanishing, then you have the momentum term like the goldstone.
But neither of these are coupling to massless particles. So the question is what do you see.
How do you observe this if it's not a coupling to quarks or leptons?
I mean, I'm just saying when you see this, this line.
Getting flagged with the uncertainties that you are in the regime of.
But how do you. Do you have any thoughts on how to observe it? What do you mean?
This is the observable, the ratio of the cross-section. So the devices are going to decay to electrons and muons.
Oh you mean the the final states. And so then.
But that means you're proportional to the mass and the masses are zero.
No no no I haven't I looked into the yeah I don't know either way.
So you stop at production level. Yeah. Yeah. You can you can see that.
Yeah. Someone needs to do this. Guys are doing it properly.
So, uh, they will do the decay properly. That.
Yeah. Was there another question?
Somebody look like they have. All right.
So we should thank our. Look I think you can. This is not true.
All right, so our next speaker is, uh, is a young man who is at CP3 and, uh,
Belgium, and he's going to tell us about precision physics at the New England.
Okay. Thanks, everyone. Um, so today I'm going to talk about precision physics at Collider.
So I'm going to do a little bit minor revision on what it has just to say that don't care about the calculations.
And so I think I can skip this, this page because I think I everybody knows what we are talking about here.
We want have a such a ring. That can be the dream machine which gives us a chance to to go to the collision theories.
And basically people are talking about this thing. So such as such a high need a machine may help us um neoplasm your madness,
annihilation channel the direct production and also the babies and people say okay,
the animation gives us a chance to directly probe the t the physics.
So you have a chance to to go to go higher, go higher to test whether you have the Hubble space or the babies will scan the full, uh,
undress spectrum and give us a chance to, uh, precisely test the standard model itself and also have some hopefully we can have some interact.
Hence funny, funny physics. And then the question comes is how much do we need to include the higher order corrections?
I mean, you'll actually make across, uh, corrections. So if you go back to take a look at Sasha ten TV, uh, anime, um, Miele Collider.
So firstly, it's the hair. It gives us a hair machinery, and then the electroweak fraction becomes larger because they have such a large so-called.
So that half log, which is log, um, your machinery square has divided by the square.
And then you go this way. So you actually have questions become relevant in both your your signal and your background estimations.
You know. You know, you're similar in all your simulation for the DSM and the standard model.
So this is important. You need to take a look. And on the other side of the.
Uh, they don't claim like such a machine is also a precision frontier.
Of course, if you do is to aim at higher precisions. Of course, electroweak correction is your essential step.
And then in this way the next week and next, the next leading order electric correction may not be sufficient.
You may even want to go to higher order. So not from that leading others.
So in both case, we'll say the electroweak correction at muon collider is just like the QCD in that video.
Now the correction I have to IFC, which is super necessary.
You cannot you cannot really ignore that. And by seeing this.
So that card I'm talking about this thing. So in the QCD you know it's for the real version.
And the real corrections there is the, uh, infrared divergence path,
which you can read that it has evolved over absolute pause and they do cancel each other.
And the same thing also happens in QED. Um, very fake.
If you assume there is, uh, effective mass for the force, um, you can regulate such a call in this way.
Log Q square divided by lambda squared.
And when you go to the electroweak physics, because of this non-zero w mass and z mass, this uh regulator is natural.
So you don't have to introduce the effective photon mass because that is massive.
This massive. So you have such a, um, um, long term.
And if you go to the kind of a classical, um, the master formula of, uh, then around the periphery,
and this is how they write out these, uh, um, I believe they write out spell logs where a single up term for the,
uh, for the soul that comes in this way, if they assume that, you know, all these that,
uh, scalar productions are kind of similar at the, uh, as level you will have.
Um, this kind of thing. Just log as divided by, uh, I'm not just square.
And then if I do a very rough estimate, um, that. This is.
That was all looks that this, uh, the, uh, the, uh, Soviet curve in terms of the machinery up to ten TV and the green one is a single log here.
I ran one order of magnitude smaller, and this red one is other one, just the copy, which is hard to read person.
However, if you take a look, for example, E plus B minus two miles up your manners, you'll see here this one is double of this one,
a single log high where you have, uh, five point number five times, uh, 40, uh, 15 times another log T divided by u.
This one could be at level ten.
So if I plot out ten times single log, this dashed green curve is at the same order of double log, which means you cannot just include the single log.
Uh, the double. Um, you should also include the single log if you really want to take a look at so that.
And then here I want to show how much electronic corrections I've seen.
So basically from our kind of intuition, you know, at our speeds and that's really all the quality is large.
That's why you see here, uh, 30, uh, 50 person.
However, you can see this one is your actual big correction is a few person is not that much large.
But if you go to look at the differential cross-sections, this one is actually the electroweak correction.
It's not so small. So I just want to see the electronics.
And that cleaning order is important enough.
I see. So if you go to the moon, father, I take a look from the paper from the, uh, the massage school.
So this is a 3D TV machine. This is an estimation for ten TV machine.
You will see that he serves around, like, from ten persons to almost 50% corrections from the next in the order electroweak correction.
So that means that sink is important if you do care about your precision.
And then here comes the question what is? If you said, if I do claim that the next reading order is important,
it's largely because of this tool that how can we really use this approximation as a good approximation to the negative questions?
And if they do care about such a scene expanding the VSM, can they also use this so that hope to have to improve our analysis?
And of course if this is sort of obvious. So like shall we do the summation.
So here is some setup we do if we care about this, this uh, pertaining to luminosity, if we care about this, uh, annihilation first.
So why do we care that you might require some final state to be larger than 80% of the fan of the machinery so that we have this.
This is what to about power production? Uh, we look here is for leading order.
The orange curve is for naturally the other.
So you will see that here in a small kitty region, you have a large cross-section of, uh, large corrections from the negative.
The other candidate is from the real, uh, correction for the fourth energy.
And then if you look at the ratio between this, uh, red one is for so that for the green, uh,
orange bar is for the negative, the other it is the okay to overlap with each other here.
Are they also this is tentative. This is relative to overlap with each other also.
And also just that. That means the two uh the so that help can mimic the real uh the full calculation.
And also it's capture this correct correct behavior for the scale.
And of course it's not absolutely flat. That means if we do assume this, that was obvious.
Love is divided by that B square. This shape this shape is from the single law.
It doesn't work. Oh. Um, and then if I show the, uh, the, you know, a mask, uh, distribution you can see here.
Okay. I ran out of the last of in that is orange curve is close to the ground for the full uh, nothing.
The other is close to this. Um, so that curve at only the last bit.
The reason is for here, this curve, this shape is because of the PDF.
Because of the, uh, initial state radiation. That's your fault.
If you have a full time radiation, radiate out before the heart, each happens, and that's thing.
It's, uh, it happens for both leading order and the cleaning order.
Uh, however, for naturally the older electrolytic crashes, there is mu mu to a tiki bar on the fourth.
Um, there is the hard for them for the, uh, radiation, for the hard collision and for process.
So this thing we don't have such this thing. And, uh, the other thing.
So that is the electric. Electric. So that helps on captured that it's a virtual correction.
It doesn't give you anything about the real correction. So that's why for this that large.
Space for this spectrum.
The of is not a good approximation to the real, the to the full, and that quality all their attractions only at the last a bit.
It is good approximation. And then there's, uh, another example for production is sensing that you have that,
that you have a ladder not with the other corrections in here because of the real, uh, because of the, uh, there's a real correction.
And also here, I remind you this, the our ideal is that there's a scalar production between this former,
uh, the, the former mentor of the, of the final state idol state.
And then if there's also such kind of log.
So that log is divided by two. Uh, love as divided by you for the 2 to 2 process.
And here, um, you're going to see if you compare this green one with this red one because those are two different things.
Either you included this law or you didn't include this law before the green one.
If you are you if you include this lock for the red one, if you compare both of them versus to,
let's say, the orange one, you will see you have to include this kind of see.
This locks the other to mimic the the real fool in that video you actually crash.
And then another example for the same thing is.
If you notice here there's something I called the inductive curve, which means it's negative, but I have to follow it out in the log in the log scale.
I had to make uh uh uh uh uh, absolute value for that.
So that means you have negative cross-sections in the differential distributions.
How to deal with that. One. I saw this at three a TV machine.
It does crossover. If you, um, had it here.
So you're okay with it? So what do you. If you have to put it in the exponential just to mimic the proper summation, you'll say, okay, in this way,
if I do the reservation for the electric vehicle so that off I for, I will have better, uh, precision.
However, if you go to ten the machine, you will you will see you will have to do this three summation in order to fix
this negative cross-section in order to have some meaningful distributions.
Otherwise you cannot really, uh, measure the negative cross-section in the distributions.
Another example is the Higgs Higgs production.
This is where the electronics. So the curve is not a good approximation.
It comes this these fields um to me okay.
So look at if you look at here this this red curve is one.
So that curve even goes to negative. The uh orange curve is for not the in order for uh, for calculation.
I'm not I didn't understand why they, they cannot they don't agree with each other until one day we realize,
okay, this is the, the the these transverse momentum distribution for the large,
uh, for the large PTZ region, the data, uh, production is you have a very large DT for the one of the D and then the other two Higgs.
They tend to be kind of collinear to each other. Yeah.
That is to say the Uma mass between them is small.
Uh, in there, if you have such kind of term, the divide divided by the entire mass of this to,
uh, to Higgs, this mass suppressed term becomes huge in that way.
The so that curve obviously the the the diner the reigning algorithm fit you cannot
really estimate the full and actually any other calculation from this sort of.
Um, but I want to show you something more about that. That I really don't really have the enough time.
I want to say. So unlike the, um, QED, there is no exact cancellation between the real and the virtual.
Correct? Uh, corrections aside, but there is still some cancellation between.
In this way, I would say at such a high degree in machine electronic, it's like QCD or 3D because you need to have nothing in the calculation.
And it is still different from that because, for example, we call that high maples and radiation.
You see here is for the tea bar production. And then um, the uh, luxury for linear order, uh, orange curve is for next leading order.
And then you'll see this part per one is for two parts production where you have additional Z radiation.
The wrong one is for two things for that. And you have additional Higgs, uh, radiation.
Uh, you will see for the for this full spectrum. They are small, much, much smaller compared to the vanilla and the gradient other only.
But you go to the, the very beginning I'll go to these bins and you can see it's kind of a huge,
uh, signals from the um, that's the same seeing if I try to make this a.
Yeah you are. Musk has to be lighter to have, uh, you are mass of tiki bar to be a lighter than a 50% of a machine, you'll see the same thing.
That's the real corrections is meaningful.
Only in here. Only in here. This is kind of a general pardon that if I applaud the GMR mass distribution, here is its annual tariff reduction.
You will see this. Is this where you care a lot for the for the uh.
Uh, direct productions. There is the something generated because of your initial degradation.
You're going to say that, um, only in this range, the the and the Higgs, um, radiation makes a big correction.
Uh, in this where in this place there is think.
Okay. I'm terrible. It's the direct production. Most the radiation is small compared to the local.
Okay, so the summer is here. We are thinking about such and such, uh, whose side are very cool.
One, uh, option at CERN mountain at Fermilab. And the conclusion is the machine is cool.
Hi all. There is actually a corrections is important and the necessary the electric vehicle.
So that could be a good approximation only in some cases.
And then they are larger than this log is large.
Doing the reservation is meaningful not only to get higher precision level,
but to fix your negative cross-sections in the tissue, uh, in the distributions.
And also there are some other case, for example, the D six production where you have this, uh, mass suppress the term that the electroweak.
So that comes up doesn't work well even film. And for the direct production, this, uh, heavy boson radiation is always smaller than the loops.
Thank you. So we have time for one urgent question.
If there is one. Everybody looks happy.
I'll ask a third of all. Nice. Go ahead.
Can you go back to the z h slide? Uh, sure.
I just like as well as it has. Yeah.
Well, you. You. Well, okay. I'm sorry.
Yeah. You're here. Okay, so you're saying that the electric ceuticals, uh uh uh uh uh, approximation is not a good approximation in this.
Completely in this region.
Now, I wonder, how can you say what makes you say that and not the reverse that the next two leading order result is the one that's not trustworthy?
The reason why I say this is that when you do the X, when you use this to recall, this is an exponentiated term.
So that means you're summing or a tower of contribution.
So it's an all orders result. And so in a very particular result in a region of the kinematics the setup is more accurate.
It is an all orders result. So my question is how do you know that it's the electric suit account factor.
That's not a good approximation in this region and not the analytic.
Because you you went for the argument of look how large the key corrections are in typos.
And but that's a great example of a kinematic configuration in which it's the QC
predictions are not good because of a special uh for reasons zeros for example.
So. Huh. What makes you say it's the Su to call that's wrong.
So, you know, you said then that cleaning of food and actually the other, uh, corrections there, uh, you know,
there are some long term that facility of, uh, there are some other terms that use a higher power, uh, constant term.
So by seeing this sort of whole field, I'm not seeing the solar system.
All I'm saying that these constant terms, other that we call it mass stress term,
is also like so there be it there is some cancellation between the so that that's why you you by by taking only the the southern half.
You don't take the full contribution to this uh, full calculation.
Um, yeah. It actually you don't know you already.
If you do a nasty calculation and you say, okay, you don't agree with the, uh,
the experimental result measurement, all of it, obviously it gives you something negative, not not reasonable.
And if you could, uh, you have double check that everything is correct.
You have two things to do. Why is this kind of, uh, possible that the, um, calculated lauter logs are uncorrelated, and that's not linear.
Other may be the game changer. It gives you a better correction.
Or maybe there's, you know, this, uh, this, uh, that the constant terms the in this other games you do that for us.
They, they try to guess why this happens.
Uh, by this happens and it happens only in this particular, uh, kind of magical region.
And then they also calculate very well. Also, sorry I didn't have the plot.
We also plot is uh, uh, delta r between these uh, V and peaks and the, uh, that are between the double Higgs.
Um, you see that this thing only happens when the two Higgs are close to each other,
and that is the only, uh, I think that's the most possible explanation for for this,
because you have almost a very, very small denominator in this term, and then you don't you don't really have that thing in,
you know, that what you would you say that, uh, the higher order, higher log for the, for the solar where you get that for momentum conservation,
you know that it very mass has to be small because they're a highly that the pair system is recoiling against a.
Yes. Yes. That's our set. All right, so we should keep talking about this at the break.
But let's take the younger get. Right.
So the next speaker is Arthur Walsh from Pittsburgh.
That's why I said it's a Pittsburgh session. Sorry, I don't know if.
Jeffrey. Did you get the point?
It's right, I do. Very tired.
Okay, so we're ready. What do you want? Oh. Um. Okay. Um. Hi.
I'm Arthur, um, from user Pittsburgh. I'm going to talk about this article, production of milk by the reporting of this tall, unmanned and cooking.
So our motivation to look like higher part of the economy on a platter is very simple.
If we look at the time when we see that, uh,
a photo can be it from a laptop and the phone home can split into cars and car can further radiate had grew up.
So in this way we can produce other car conclusions says initial state in know that's
collider which allows all kinds of quality productions and we wonder how big they are.
Um. And of course, our calculation is all to do with all this stuff and cleaner, simpler things.
So I only want to focus on the hardest scattering of the quark and gluons.
Therefore, we choose to use a higher distribution function, uh, to describe these,
uh, initial states, which is basically the same as that for Hadron Collider.
So we have vanilla repeat in terms of lasing functions.
And by color looking with another PDS we can write down this uh result for factorized PDF uh at scale mu.
And by taking that derivative with respect to the scale mean,
we can just take a of equation which we rely on to solve for this parton distribution function.
And this is the idea that goes into our calculation of the semi solution for that, uh, perception.
Uh, for example, this scattering of particle A and B. So this is of them.
And here's the results from Tala and Yama and Coconspirator.
So as we can see, there's indeed quite a few foraging groups in the Myanmar.
So with this PDA, I feel like to see what are the, uh, color BSM particles that we can produce.
Uh, and Mural Collider. And here shows a complete list of all the particles that we consider in our paper.
So we have vector like fa cups, fa stereotype car rental, car rental of author writer.
And we know. And the divide.
This argument has three groups. So the part in the first group have both electronic components of common z and W, and also those two carbon groups.
And in addition to these copying the part in the same group cutoffs also to
Latam and the particle in the third group doesn't have any electroweak coupling,
but it covers only two cardinal gluons. So in the following I talk about one particle from each category.
As an example, to show you what is the sensitivity from the outside of.
Uh, so the first example would be this vector like part. So the vector like car has some model independent gauge couplings.
And those are some model dependent couplings to uh W and B and z and top quark.
So the model independent coupling would give you pair production.
So we have you know navigation follow fusion and also quark annihilation and gluon fusion.
Other, more dependent power will give you some single production. So we have this 2 to 1 versus BW, t BW to t.
And also this we all know relation to a vector like part in the top part.
And here shows a cross-section. So in the first call I make it as a function of the mass of the vector, like ten TV collider.
And the second plot I show the cross-section as a function of the center mass energy.
And so we can see that for power productions, uh, the, the middle annihilation dominates,
which is followed by this caviar gamma fusion and quark gluon fusion.
And we also see that there's 2 to 1 versus BW to T is also quite sizable.
And of course, they also see the interesting feature in the second floor where the beyond dilation
channel decrease with respect to energy because they typically scale up one over s.
Well, for the part of initiated process, the increase because they go as long as.
So with this first section I would like to see what's the sensitivity.
So the case, however,
where I'll be looking at is this tend to be which is effectively background free because of the clean environment in On the outsider.
So it applies institution comes in some tag efficiencies and here shows the sensitivity.
And it choose to use five and 15 events as our benchmark for this, uh, for execution and discovery.
So it shows the centrality ends up playing a match versus call playing, which is this bwt.
Uh, vertex. So this vertical line is from power production.
Visualize that half of this entire mass energy. Now these curves are from single production.
So as we can see, uh, on Collider does a much better job than having me ask for this simple and first example of Vector Park.
So the second example would be a more interesting scalar natural cart.
So the scalar laptop car also have some model independent gauge coupling.
So what's interesting about this is its coupling to uh, to uh, that um, and the part.
So this would open up a new channel email nomination with a double insertion this vertex.
So now power production will also give you some sensitivity on this comes in London.
And of course this also gives us a very interesting single production.
Very run of the mill radiates a quark, then collide with another mule to give you this little quark.
And here shows a cross-section. So again we see that for power production the organization dominates.
Well, we also find this to the single production, uh, this quark.
And then you go to a lot of parts, quite sizable. And again I like to see what's a sensitivity.
So to catch how you're looking at is this, that top quark that is a lantern on the quark supplies institution, cousin tiny efficiency.
And here shows a sensitivity for power production and a single production, respectively.
So for power production, we see that there is an over turn in the sensitivity curve.
And this is because in this region, the C channel and S channel, uh, I can interfere destructively, which would hurt your sensitivity a bit.
But overall you see that the collider has a much better sensitivity, however we are seeing.
And here I would also like to briefly mention that to go on.
So let's talk is, uh, fermion and co-host to Latam and gluons or this dimension of five operator and of course this will also give us,
uh, very interesting single production here. What does that mean already?
It's a global. That, Clive, is another move on to give you this that talk about.
And here I'll just directly show this intuitive where we can say, you know, Collider does a much better job.
So this is very interesting because by studying the gluon content inside of Mu, you can achieve a much better sensitivity than the Hadron Collider,
which is to say the gluon from the muon is more useful than a glove from a proton in this case.
Um, so that's for that to go on. So the last example would be the vector object.
So vector octet doesn't have any electric charge. It covers all into quarks and gluons.
And here we choose to turn on the coupling to top quark.
So for uh production we have this Q1 fusion.
And also this move induced gamma fusion is a top quark in the loop.
And you can also, uh, single produce a vector octet from the radiation of the top quark.
And here shows a cross-section.
So for pair production we see that this, uh, you can do is to count gamma fusion have a similar size compared to a car and gluon fusion.
So this, uh, for single production, this mirror annihilation channel is quite sizable.
And again, I would like to estimate the sensitivity. So our signal would be this.
Fourth. How fourth. How final. Say there a pair of top comes from the decay of a vector octet.
So the background would be some similar diagram. But now this third call comes from the radiation of a gluon.
So it would be good if we can just calculate the very mass of this pair of top quark, which were equal to the mass of the vector orbital,
so that you can distinguish a single in the background, but in reality you cannot distinguish these four tops.
So it's just like has a combinatorial mass, which means we calculate the mass of all the possible combinations of hair on top.
And here shows uh uh uh signal versus background distribution.
And that's we can see the signal is quite sizable and distinguishable from the type of.
And so this, this analysis, uh, he applies amphitheater cars and tiny efficiencies.
And here shows us sensitivity. And as you can see, the middle cleaner still gives you a much better result than a hadron collider.
This is also very interesting because for a particle that couples only to a car can glue on,
the muon collider can still give you a better result and a hydroplane.
And this is because muon collider has a much cleaner environment and also higher supervised energy.
So that's the last example. And conclusion is that for even for color particle, in many cases the outsider has a much better reach compared to ours.
Okay. This. Well.
Thank you. So we have time for questions. I know you said in the when you show the the four tops in the final stage.
Yeah. And uh, because I if you look for like t t bar hits across section and something very small.
So what what's the cross section here. The signal is, uh, blue is, uh, uh, the signal is this tiger.
Oh, that's the environmental t yeah, yeah. The power of the attitude or t bar.
Uh, it could be either way or some. You cannot even distinguish top end devices.
Yeah. Why do you have a residency team?
Oh, because that would that come from the decay of the belt where it goes?
Uh, yeah. Yeah yeah yeah yeah, yeah.
So it's not bad. Other questions?
Yeah, yeah. Can you go back to the production?
I think it was with the, the first scenario you considered and you show me the show cards and you make this,
uh, statement effectively background free. Uh, how strong is that?
How good is that? Because I'm thinking, you know, you you have a pair of boobs in the final state, so that is literally good bar.
Um, and I'm sure you're posing in a very mask cut window of, uh, on the WB system to be in there,
but I can imagine there's this pathological configuration because it's just a 2 to 2 process.
At the end of the day, the quote is that you are miss tagging or miss reconstructing the image.
And the bottom from one T is associated with the W from the second.
And since that, they're essentially back to back and have different kinematics, I can imagine that there's some window that the passer cut.
Is that really, really small or. No, we we didn't estimate the size has been.
You have some missing energy. Uh uh, miss uh, typings mismatch.
Yeah. Uh, yeah. But they apply some efficiency of this, uh, to this whole curve anyway.
And just as a over magnitude estimation, a partial level.
All right. So we should thank our three again. Thank you. Our last speaker and you know, we.
And the winner and the clicker are there. Yeah, yeah, it's all the time.
Okay, so the last speaker is, uh, you can go from, uh, I apologize from a big pack and Ellen and you.
Yeah. Can you tell us about probing anomalies? Quite a couple things that have been collected.
Go ahead. Uh, without the natural. Um.
Well, I'm from, uh, Daniel Normal University, and, uh, now I it get back.
Uh, I, uh, today I will show some, uh, our, uh, recent work about, uh, uh, uh, problem,
anomalous cutting coupling item, your collider, uh, that this work, uh, corroborates what it's, uh, we are.
And, uh, Tony. Uh, due to the, uh, uh, uh, of, uh, clearly, uh, you know, physical signals.
So, uh, uh, okay, so I showed up, uh, where?
Next we. Of course, we can build an even larger collider.
Go ahead. Higher energy and discover new particles.
But no one can guarantee. So we can do some precision measurements to discover new physics indirectly.
Uh, how to interpret that, uh, moment to results of the direct and indirect search for, uh, for gas?
Um, uh, of course, would differ. Uh, we have, uh, some, uh, uh.
Resident peak. Uh, on the master script, we can use the, uh, uh, some, uh, the model, uh, the other way to use the.
Yeah. Some model, just like sushi. And to heat up a model as well to describe the, uh, phenomena of the new particles.
But if the, uh, heavy particle, uh, mass, uh, out of the range of the collider, uh, the deviation in the in and tells, uh, you know, the details,
you know, shows up first so we can use the model independent way, just like some, uh, simplified models on for the effect for your theory to,
uh, uh, describe, uh, to, uh, describe the, uh, new interaction of that model, uh, particles just like, uh, anomalous couplings in this,
uh, uh, uh, in in the research, uh, multi-person, uh, physics, uh, is a very, uh, useful key to, uh, to the, uh, new, new, new physics.
Uh, uh, search. There are lots of, uh, results from, uh, multiple some measurements, I thought, or see, just like,
uh, the, the possum production and the triple symposia and, uh, both models in future are starting.
So the arc has also been seen as a large, awesome collider.
The muon Collider is more, uh, aligned with, uh, the, uh, large awesome, awesome Boson Collider.
Um, it kind of shows the, uh, uh, more opportunity for foster theoreticians and, uh, experimentalists.
Uh, just like the professor talk shows, the, uh, longitudinal lectures are very useful.
And, uh, for more, uh, referrals under the auspices of the, the, the machine learning and, uh,
uh, uh, optimizer social analysis, uh, or even global fit is very useful for, um, for the study.
So it will uh, the more the high energy and the higher the luminosity will show, the more opportunities.
The standard model if it's zero, is, uh, is very useful for the, uh, in interactors, uh, search.
Uh, it's a bottom up approach with a general, uh, parameterizing, uh, parameter decision.
And, uh, the if you define to operators, uh, constrained by the star model field and with uh coefficients,
a with the inverse, the power of the, uh, you know, fitness scale lambda.
So the, uh, the leading order of the new physics always shows that the dimension is six because it's the latest, uh uh, uh, stuff.
Right. But in some specific case, uh, the leading order of, uh, of the device of of, uh,
you know, physics will show shows and, uh, dimension eight, uh, numbers, of course.
Good. Is, uh, one of the, uh, that's the specific case.
Okay. Uh, uh, dimension eight.
Operator. Uh, describe the by three types of, uh, operator just like, uh, ice type on t type under assault is, uh, made by the, uh,
uh, convert, uh, uh, derivatives of text and the T types is, uh, made by the, uh, uh, fields dress and the, um, types.
It's a mix of them. Uh, the glory could.
Uh, could you see? It's one of the best stories.
If it, uh, uh, it could receive. It's, uh, uh, associated with, uh, glory.
Could feel it. The glory to that security is a natural, essential focal point field theory supported by string theory.
And then it's, uh, uh, uh, made by the eight kinds of, uh, operator.
Uh, I do, uh, we do some, uh, uh, study about some multi-person physics study that you can either, um,
for the, uh, accuracy and the accuracy, uh, including with, uh, bypass process and the triple sum process.
We put that, uh, uh, using the bypass of WW to come, come to find that, uh, it will receive us, uh, both, uh, maybe us and, uh,
triple listen will, uh, contribute to this, you know, so we compared, uh, make up comparison of the sun should also be fun.
Uh, the higher energy, uh, there'll be we will, uh, the contribution of, uh, maybe as it will be dominance, but, uh, below the ten TV, uh, the triple.
So even side compared with uh, uh uh, so many in this work we concentrate on the previous process.
So we use the some causal select device as a signal.
Uh, you hand it, uh uh, the ability, uh uh.
Uh. Uh, effective.
Your theory will be, uh, use the for certain, uh, under a certain, uh, under skill.
So we use the parallel universes to get, uh, in third bodies for our process, uh, wisdom.
We can catch, uh, constrained, uh, uh, coefficients of the, uh, operator.
And with the some of the rules, we can, uh, get, uh, uh, the spike, uh, it could receive code coefficients compared to the 30.
Or see, the specifications can be improved by 2 or 3, uh, orders of magnitude two of 42.
Uh, uh, you know, can either under buy for orders of May 3rd of the for 30 TV.
Uh, your clients. We also.
We also use the um, machine learning algorithm, which called, uh, this data flow, uh, local outlier factor shot from uh, was to optimize the, our,
uh, even this such a spreadsheet as an unsupervised machine learning algorithm, uh, outcome ultimately discovered, uh, anomalies, you know, uh, uh.
Uh model independent under operator Independent Way.
And the results, it shows a, uh, a slightly, uh, better than traditionally.
For the other, uh, process. The exclusive dub dub to top.
Uh, scoring. Uh, this, uh, this, of course, has come, uh, upsets over the backgrounds and the the initial stages of the Cyprus process will, you know,
much clearer uh, on the premium teams related articles and trains when you train them, um, make us as concentrated on the, uh, for w, uh, vertex.
Until various processes contribute to the signal. How we can extract it.
Uh, certain, uh, process. The machine learning helps.
So we use the artificial neural network to, uh, extracting the software.
Since the input variable is made up by a 14 dimensional, uh, vector.
Uh 12. Component commands are made by the formal mentor of the charge and absence under the missing movement, under two components,
uh, made by the flavor of the charge absence after the and after the training and, uh, data type, uh, output.
So one variable we made, we namely,
it's a double score which can tell us the whether the event is from uh uh w w w uh plus w minus two to the minus support process.
Uh, from the figure we can, we can see, uh, it kind of, uh, this, uh, distinguished, uh, the sub process with, uh, w w to top down with some forces.
After that, we can extract, uh, the certain, uh, forces, and then we used, uh,
uh, the kind of let's go observers to just a like, uh, the signal from the bike.
Well, um, the, uh, expected constraints are, uh, coefficients can, uh.
We retired and on the at the 30th.
We'll try to make, uh, the constraints. Uh, for order of magnitude stronger than those from the receipt.
We also do the tribalism. Uh, we'll vote um, tool.
Uh, married? Uh uh, accuracy.
Uh, using the new, um, the auto, uh, impossible method to, uh, train travel the week.
Uh uh uh, this process will have some, some features.
Um. It's a big difference between, uh, between, uh, Gib Collider and uh, Mill Collider because the, um, uh,
Collider, the, uh, the tree Travolta uh, or the or, uh, we can see the on the, uh and yeah, I know uh, yes.
True for will be surprised, uh, because the, uh, the initial steps need, uh, uh, antiparticle, but, uh, the collider and from the si quark.
So it will surprise. But, I mean, either we can make it, uh, more powerful.
So this process, the, uh, come, uh, uh, of, uh, opportunity to, uh, to migrate.
Uh, uh, it could be. See, uh, this process is only affected by the, uh, type operator.
With some, uh, Kennametal uh, operator.
Uh uh uh uh, of the rules. We we can't get the through the constraints.
And the result shows the, uh, tripod and production of the mule is more sensitive to the, uh, the 889 operators for three TV.
Uh, it will show the two orders might feel stronger than, uh, receipt and the for us 30 TV.
It's a real the about six order of mighty strong to that receipt.
It also quite, uh, two kinds of machine learning offering uh which, uh, uh, K-means and, uh, support, uh, support the vector machine.
Uh, it's a tool for machine learning to optimize the, uh, even the selection strategy.
Oh, this the, uh, uh, uh, algorithm come shows that it's a very useful tool distinguishes on the by blogs.
So, uh, the technical detail, I want to show it here because the time and the, the last, uh, uh, pro uh, that's the work I will show you.
It's, uh, to, uh, to, um, to find the g g currency.
Many discovery, um, the electroweak, uh, accuracy last circle.
I think it was, um, it's, um, some work about, uh, teachers that I received is a due to come gamma g due to think,
um, under our, uh, other I, uh, some, uh, such as the accuracy measurement side.
So your colleagues are using you plus me, my for government and the the, uh, this, uh, this signal will have some, uh, some, some feature, um,
because the curiosity is notified by the, uh,
the machine operator and the it's a have a clean signal with no done model background, but, uh, only by the background.
Uh, is, uh, from the, uh, gamma signal.
We are affected by the thermal background, the, uh, to look up because we kind of distinguish the,
uh, grown chat or the contract, but so it's the there is no, uh,
interference between the signal and the background make the more simple after the, uh, uh,
given such you restoration strategy and, uh, uh, we can get the some we can't get the, the constraints compared to the stability.
Uh, so receive it rc TV Collider I you has the constraints by, uh, 25%.
Uh, and, uh, started 30 remote behind the wheel for the, uh, about the current limits on the,
um, uh, noticed here is that the limits are, um, so, um, is the, uh, uh.
Uh, the, uh, inverse of the, uh, it's some kind of, uh, new, new the new physics is new physics.
Uh, so it's, uh, different views of the, uh.
So in summary the bookseller. And this research has a lot to either couple of ways.
These high energy state from both the USA and the independent search for new physics and the most important metrics that measure aid,
provide a window of opportunity for indirectly a new phase II, the collider and machine learning.
So rise upwards so you can search for new physics. Continue to unlock resource of the high level of physics.
Thank you, thank you. So we have time for a couple of questions or comments.
I have a quick question. Uh, going back to the partial wave analysis that you did with the, uh, the WW mechanics.
Yeah. A quick question. Did you do the partial wave over the full amplitude?
Did the electrons come in new new gamma, gamma come out?
You only did it on the W2. Gamma gamma. So the process.
Okay. But this is on the the either.
So we can. So I think there are some energy dependent, gauge dependent terms that should vanish in the high energy limit.
Um, but they might be floating around in there because the, uh, new mute again, the new new channel,
there are some ESR, FSR diagrams and they cancel against the vector boson scattering channels.
It's not uh, it turns out it's not gauge invariant, uh, at arbitrary energies.
That's not that's not obvious. Like, you know. And I found this out like, more recently.
Okay, so if you're in the high energy limit, you should be fine.
Because those those that gauge dependance gets suppressed, as it turns out.
Um, and so if you're going out to 1432, you should be fine.
It might be something might be fun to look at and look into this investigated and get published.
All right. We should thank the speaker again. So as a quick reminder, there's a coffee break.
