# Accelerator: Parallels

Uh, my name is Emma Snively.
I'm from the Slack National Accelerator Laboratory, and I'll be helping to introduce speakers and moderates to this session.
Uh, our first speaker for today is Caroline McCall, uh, from the University of Tennessee.
And take it away. Okay. Thank you.
Um, okay, so some of you may have just heard this pitch at the poster session, but if not, I'll be discussing progress on the H4 for snake.
Um, for initial 60 cooling. Um, so I'd like to start just to get all on the same page with a really basic picture of ionization cooling.
So the idea is we have these lithium hydride, which absorbers are some low heat absorbing material, and we induce dispersion via some dipole field,
uh, to separate high momentum particles and selectively pass them through more absorbing material.
And we can model ionization cooling with this equation.
Basically, if you have some ionization cooling term and then you have some multiple scattering heating term.
Um, so the problem with this basic picture is that by nature this is charge dependent.
So using a basic dipole field um, is going to have uh say amu plus NMU minus moving mirror symmetrically.
Um, so this means that we need separate cooling channels, uh, if we're going to use this approach.
However, today I'd like to present, uh, an idea for ionization cooling, uh, which is inherently charge agnostic.
So I'd like to be very upfront with, uh, this idea was here for Alexa.
Hence during the map era, unfortunately, year is no longer with us.
So what I'm going to talk about is characterizing his design, um, which over the last year is what I've been doing in a lot of depth.
Um, and then talking about moving forward, how we're going to try to optimize this channel and what the outlooks are for it.
Um, okay. So let's start. Some of you may have seen this during map or during the poster presentation, but if not, let me introduce you to each photo.
Uh, so you can see here a single period in the lattice.
Um, this is composed of alternating polarity solenoids, hence the photo.
Um, embedded within those we have RF cavities to restore longitudinal momentum.
And in the gaps between them we have these lithium hydride wedge absorbers.
Um, so altogether the channel is about 30 of these periods, making for about 120m in length.
Um, so H2O flow operates on three basic principles, which I'd like to discuss in more detail.
Uh, namely the alternating polarity solenoid focusing, which is inherently charge agnostic.
Then the use of solenoid rotations to induce a periodic rotating dipole field,
which is how we end up with some really unique behavior that allows this channel to be charge agnostic.
And finally, uh, the uh, operation near resonance condition, which allows for, um, a higher dispersion scheme.
So I'd like to start by breaking down the solenoid lattice design, which is really interesting.
So we can start by building up from a photo lattice. So alternating polarity solenoids.
Um and then we apply a small rotation about the x axis uh on the order 2.5 Miller radians.
So very small rotation. And what this does is it creates like an upward dipole field.
But of course that's charge agnostic. So you're it takes a that's a next step and applies these periodic rotations about the z axis.
So you can see groups of three rotations repeated twice per single period.
And the consequence is rather than having mirror symmetric orbits like we might intuitively expect,
the mu plus and minus have these identical orbits offset by half a period longitudinally.
So we can see this in this animation here on the left. That's a rudimentary, uh, representation of a single period.
You can see the, um, positions of the solenoids and their polarity,
and we can see on the right the orbits of the mu plus in blue and mu minus in red in the transverse plane.
So you can see, indeed they execute these identical helical orbits, hence the H in each photo.
Um, this is dominated by a little more motion, that large circle.
And then you see these little tiny loops that happen, uh, when the muons get to the oppositely charged solenoid.
So a mu plus at a negatively charged solenoid and vice versa.
Um, so, uh, to kind of summarize.
Again what I've said, but to really bring it home.
Um, uh, at standard channel, like the rectilinear might use a physical dipole component or a single solenoid tilt to generate this charge specific,
more traditional dispersion, uh, scheme. But here it with fulfilled.
These periodic rotations generate what we call a rotating dipole field,
which is something if you look at a field map you can actually see the field rotating and flipping.
And this allows us to have um, placement of wedge absorbers in such a way that it's in-phase with the mu plus and minus orbits.
So you can see the single period is six solenoids are six cooling units because we have two types of orbits and then three groups of rotations per.
So three times two is six. And this is this is the setup of the lattice.
So this is a really clever brilliant design that Harry made. And so we're trying to do it justice.
Um one other thing that he's done here that's really bold, um, is he's chosen to have this channel operate in a resonance condition.
So if you were here, uh, earlier in the week at the accelerator school, you'd see Taylor's really nice, uh, visualization of what a tune is.
And typically, we don't want to operate, uh, near a resonance tune, uh, because it can limit your momentum acceptance.
But by doing so, you generate this positive momentum compaction factor that essentially means larger dispersion,
higher momentum particles traveling longer paths. And we can have this localized large path lengthening where the wedge absorbers are placed, uh,
to have more cooling happening effectively if you imagine wanting to shrink your momentum distribution.
Um, so this is another really unique facet of is design. Um, if we look at the beta function to further characterize the lattice,
you'll notice the wedge absorbers are placed near the minimum of the beta function.
So there's room for improvement on this.
And the reason for this is because if we think back to the equation I showed on the first slide, if we solve that,
uh, for the equilibrium admittance of the minimum achievable admittance, this is proportional to the beta function.
So having our or rather the transverse beta function. So having our wedge absorbers near the minima um allows us to achieve further cooling.
Okay. And one other aspect of the design are the RF cavities. So these are to restore longitudinal momentum.
So as particles deposit energy via ionization this allows us to achieve cooling.
But also we don't want the particles to stop.
So hence the the RF cavities and the placement such that the minimum of the base function align with the absorbers.
So these operate at 325MHz. Um and also present designs include some gaseous hydrogen to enable that RF gradient
and some additional homogeneous cooling of that may not be present in future designs.
The last thing I'd like to note about each photo is that it acts sort of like a de facto matching section.
Um, so in the design, we start with muons coming out of the front end at around 2250, um, Nev.
And then along the channel this is degraded to around 200 MeV.
Persie. So this really nicely primes the rest of the cooling channel to operate at that minimum ionizing point of 200 MeV, which is ideal for cooling.
So not only would having H4 as an initial cooling channel provide some initial cooling before charge separation,
which might in fact even be necessary for charge separation to be achievable.
Um, but it would also be able to nicely prime the rest of the cooling channel to operate, uh, in the ideal performance regime.
So having pretty in-depth characterized your design, I'd like to talk about the current performance.
Um, so these are your results as of 2015, but we've been able to replicate similar performance.
We don't have the exact files he's working with.
Um, but what you can see here are the initial and final phase space distributions from U plus, but very similar from U minus.
And the big takeaway here is that we are seeing evidence of cooling.
This distribution is shrinking. Of course this is also with losses.
So perhaps a more quantitative metric. Here we can look at the Igen mode admittance on the left.
So the red mode is approximately the longitudinal. And then the blue and green are some linear combination of the transverse modes.
We have a solenoid lattice. So there's coupling between the transverse planes.
And what we see is around two orders of magnitude in admittance reduction 60 admittance reduction mostly in the transverse plane.
Um and this is with a transmission rate era reports of 65%.
Um, so something worth, uh, investigating to try to optimize.
And in the simulations we've done presently with a more modern front end.
This transmission rate is a lot lower. So we actively have to work on making the design more up to date with the current version of the front end.
Um, so to kind of summarize what Yuri has demonstrated. Um, about two orders of magnitude intermittent reduction.
Um, for both of you, plus and minus in the same channel, which is very novel.
Um, but like I said, since the map project, there hasn't been a lot of work on this design.
And indeed, versions of the the, uh, Collider schematic have just removed the initial cooling channel.
So what I'd like to show is what we're working on now to make this a viable candidate to include in the nominal design again.
Um, so to kind of lay out logically, what we've been working on, as I've shown, is design is rather non-trivial.
So we've gone through some sort of archeology to reconstruct what theory was was working with and trying to systematically,
uh, study how the design works. So we're moving forward now with trying to do some optimization.
So we've started with, uh, a sort of simplified version of the channel with a constant momentum, trying to replicate his results study,
uh, the beam optics in this really complex field configuration and work to an optimization stage.
So just to show a few highlights from this and not enough time to show everything,
but you can see here from my G4 beamline simulations, uh, reference mu plus orbit along the full channel with series original design.
And then in our sort of simplified version, where we have set the momentum to be a constant 200% with no degradation,
just to study the the complex optics in a little simpler environment.
Um, we've also studied the dispersion and beta function to more systematically, uh, study the, uh, beam optics.
So you can see the dispersion curve along the channel is dominated by these large like larger than a single period oscillations.
And then within a single period indicated by the, uh, vertical bars, um, we see about six extrema occur,
um, which we'd like to kind of nicely, uh, align with the absorber placement to have ideal cooling rates.
Um, so to kind of put this a little more explicitly, so far we've tried to understand the lattice design.
We're working on a report right now to summarize our findings and present, uh,
a more theoretically, systematically motivated, um, description of h fo fo for reference.
Um, we're working now on creating a suitable, uh, admittance calculator, um,
and understanding the momentum degradation along the channel and the cooling performance.
And then in the future, we want to try to improve the admittance reduction,
but mostly get that, uh, transmission rate up to make this, uh, a viable design,
but also trying to make it a bit more physically realizable because we realize 2.5
million radian solenoid rotations are going to be difficult to physically build.
Um, so we're concluding this characterization now and starting on our report.
And then in the fall we're going to start on the optimization.
Um, so just, uh, to conclude here with a few ideas moving forward with the optimization.
Um, we're looking at trying to taper the length of elements along the channel.
Shortening the channel will help us reduce decays,
but also we want to try to make these minimum of the beta function line up with the absorbers better so we can achieve even further cooling.
Um, and also uh, which is that second point there as well.
Um, and we're very open to other ideas.
Uh, there have been suggestions of trying to look at a brute force optimization or, uh, trying to do something more systematic.
We're trying to approximate Hamiltonian now, and so maybe we can take a more theory motivated approach.
Uh, but in the end, uh, thank you so much for your attention.
And I know the poster session already happened, but if you didn't get to see, uh, Ritika,
another UT student was studying the matching section of each photo, which is so complicated, I didn't even talk about it here.
Uh, so definitely check that out as well. But with that, thank you. I've got a couple of comments on this.
Very nice work. Uh, as it happens, a couple of posters over from you, Aubrey Zhang, was presenting a genetic optimization of the 60 cooling channel.
So if the two of you get together, you might be able to generate some new ideas about how to optimize.
Yes. Uh, I have a nagging engineering question that you're in a position to address,
which is that there's an awful lot of new, um, energy deposition happening, uh, in these absorbers.
And how do you keep them from overheating? Uh, so it would be worth doing a calculation of, uh,
what the temperature rise would be if they had if they were cooled only radioactively, for example.
And if you could add water cooling around the outside edges and what, how much heat transfer you could get, etc.
Yes. That's a very interesting idea. I can't say that I know anything about that now, but definitely interested.
Thank you. I was just going to kind of comment.
We have some nice hydrogen pressure, uh, functions, which you can use if you want to answer that question.
Thank you. Thanks.
Uh, so very nice and interesting. The first time I've seen this was the poster.
And now. Now this talk. It's quite interesting work. Um, I was curious, um, and naively, if you if if you were just to even get, uh,
you know, reasonably close to the efficiency of the one charged on channeling,
you would immediately get like a factor of two, reduction in the price ratio of one rather than to cooling channels that you have to build.
So is there any reason to believe that like this is going to be significantly less?
Because otherwise it would seem to be, you know, very promising, just in the fact that you can use it for both charges.
Right. Uh. Right. Uh. Sorry.
I just was wondering if. So, the overall, uh, I guess the question is, is the cooling, uh, you know, roughly the same level of, uh,
cooling that you can get out of this, you know, and, and transmission fraction roughly the same as the traditional method.
I see, um, I'm actually not terribly sure what the performance looks like for the rectilinear channel.
I am very interested in working with some people on the rectilinear channel to try to do an H photo into rectilinear and see how that performs,
but if anyone in here knows the numbers. So as a precursor, yes it is.
Yes, I am going in to direct you. Exactly.
Yes. So definitely, uh, this channel has some limitations, uh, because ah, um, uh,
can I also describe, uh, so this inducer, uh, close to the resonance condition.
So therefore the system is very, uh, very unstable, especially like a lower admittance condition.
So, uh, usually always tried, uh, like I extend, like a cooling.
But there he never solved. So we are now like a challenging Riker.
Uh, what he failed to say. Okay, okay.
For the minutes. Okay. Uh, yeah.
Just to follow up on. So you guys, uh, Oman.
I think what we'll try to do is maybe we can use.
Maybe we can use this channel to replace a big part of a linear channel.
Uh, before we merge, I think that would be the goal. Uh, so we'd like to see, uh, what are the limits?
How long we can go. And I think Yuri started doing that, but it never finished, basically.
So I think Caroline will take over and do that. Okay.
Any more questions or comments? Uh, could you briefly comment on the matching problem?
I was unable to see that poster, but what's there?
Uh, so the idea is there's one period at the beginning of the channel that is like the most complicated period.
Everything in the steady state is repeated.
Uh, but that one, the idea is it takes the particle to the correct position and angle to start to execute that helical orbit.
So basically the transition from the front end to full flow.
And it's very complicated and has done a really great job trying to motivate, uh,
how that works and how we can make, um, that matching scheme, um, kind of design agnostic.
So as we change the flow lattice, we'll still be able to match to the front end.
Okay, let's take this. Okay.
So our next speaker will be Kyle Capo Bianco Hogan from Stony Brook University.
Yes. You got it. Okay. Okay.
Can you hear me? All right. Okay, so I'm, uh, presenting an update on the TeV acceleration for the Fermilab, uh, muon Collider.
So main goals right now are to accelerate muon and anti on beams from 63 JV to, uh, to five TeV.
We we're trying to see how far we can get on site since cutely fitting that on site is a bit problematic.
So trying to find out how far we can actually get and then what it takes to actually get to five TeV.
Yeah. Uh, yeah. There's, uh, two, uh, basic forms that we're looking at right now for the, uh, rapid cycling synchrotron chain.
There's a conventional process.
Is this, uh uh oh. Okay. Yeah, that's probably, uh, okay.
Uh, you have a conventional osseous chain which uses a ramp dipole magnets.
We have quadrupole magnets, and it's fairly simple.
Doesn't, uh, do anything crazy.
Hybrid ox, on the other hand, is capable of getting to much higher fields and much higher energies.
But as you can see, you have, uh, large excursions in the beam path, in this case, larger than that, the substantially larger than the beam width.
Uh. Uh, this is based on having an iron dominated, uh, thick, iron dominated lamp field magnets, uh, which can operate at up to about 1.75 Tesla.
Uh, for the maximum field in, uh, I should note in the conventional X, you going between some part?
Well, depending on the orientation of your beams, you'll either have positive,
uh, a minimum positive and a maximum positive field or a negative equivalent,
uh, whereas you ramping over the full field range of you normal conducting magnet in the hybrid scenario.
So, um. You do get more of that field range.
Add it that way. Problem is.
So the problem with these WIMP magnets is the limit to about 1.75 Tesla.
So we look at, uh, using coil dominated superconducting magnets to get us up from, uh, to increase our average, uh,
or average bend field overall and allow us to accommodate higher energy beams in a, in a tunnel of a given size than we otherwise would be able to.
Uh, in this case, we're looking at, uh, 14 Tesla for it.
I think it's. A decently reasonable number, though it is pushing, uh, things somewhat that they're trying to design those for the FCC as well.
So hopefully we can get those. Uh, basically out of a lattice.
Uh, beyond that, we have two types of straight sections.
Now instead of, uh, just one, we used to just have a straight section completely filled with OS,
as you can see over here, uh, just an off, uh, number of straight cells filled with.
I have, uh, two cells for dispersion suppression on either side and then arc cells connected by them.
We have, uh, since last year, we have added, uh, longer straight cells, uh, total of six of them to each ring,
uh, in order to accommodate, uh, two additional utility cells for injection and extraction.
Uh, we were able to fit all of the injection extraction within that, based on our current estimates.
Uh, quite nicely. Though I should note in the case of some wings, there were only six super periods,
so we only have the long type of super period and don't have the short type at all.
But the first to be wings will use that alternating pattern of long and short super periods.
Uh, we have a ring geometry overall. Uh.
Uh, just to give you an idea of it. Uh, here we have the two.
Super. We have a, uh. Unlike the previous diagram we are centered on, we're ending at the center of the street section.
So this is half of the Long Street section. This is half of.
This is a full short street section that is half of a long street.
And you can see our, uh, dispersion suppressor, uh, dispersion suppressor over here.
And it's reduction in our beam size there.
Uh, we're using half bends. So again, as you saw earlier, uh, we need two cells for dispersion suppression loop.
Uh, putting it half filled in the bend. Magnets normally.
Uh. Now the layout has some constraints to it.
Uh. One off.
We have to distribute it around the wing. That's why we have all of these.
I have sections instead of just having one off section and every other street section being a utility street.
It's all of those straight sections contain RF and some of them contain utility sections.
Uh. This is because we have to reduce the mismatch because between field and energy, which you can see here just, you know, arbitrary units.
Uh, just a schematic. Our, uh, field ramps up continuously because we know at the weights we're going at kill a Tesla per second.
We can't stop and start. Uh, for the energy, though, we're ramping up, you know, accelerating in our straight section through Earth,
then proceeding at a, uh, fixed energy e to the next straight section.
As a result, we have a mismatch, except, uh, at the middle where we cross through and match up.
Um, I should note there was a counter propagating beam.
That's why we can't just time everything so that it all matches up.
Otherwise, we'd be able to adjust the timing of each ramp of each magnet's ramp individually, at least in principle.
Uh, for this, uh, I think major consideration on this aspect of it is, uh, uh, to maintain a synchrotron tune at,
uh, reasonable number, uh, we'd lose the approximation that it's all continue.
That acceleration is continuous. If we have too much of a synchrotron to too much of a single phase advanced, uh, post application.
Uh, really we're looking at post super period.
However, since that's how often we have our RF, unlike in a typical link, would be spread out, uh, would be all together in one location.
Some of the constraints on it. We have a quadruple length. They increase with cell length.
Since, uh, we're using a fixed, uh, 90 degree phase advance post-sale.
Uh, we end up with a fixed. Oh, we end up having to scale up there a quadruple length, but it doesn't scale as quickly as cell length.
So we end up with a quadruple packing fraction that decreases with cell length.
So I think, okay, let's just make the cells as long as we can.
But there are two issues with with that.
Um, all of our cells are the same length.
Longer cells mean that we're going to have more space, you know,
straight sections which once you have something long enough to accommodate all of you off,
you have no further benefit to to increasing that length, and you're lowering your average, uh,
gradient because you're incorporating more dispersion suppressors in, uh, but you dispersion suppressor becomes a larger, uh, every time you, uh,
for whatever amount you increase the cell length since the scaling the same way, uh, you end result, you end up with an optimum like you can see here.
This happens to be an example of, uh, one of the scenarios I'm going to show you later.
Uh. So, uh, finally, we have what we said, our average accelerating gradient to.
Which ends up being constrained by our survival rate.
We. This is a bit flexible since there is some room to sacrifice a bit of luminosity for a better energy reach in our wings,
but we try to keep it as high as we can and ultimately strike a balance between these parameters.
Uh, looking at one of the more extreme cases for beam exclusions,
you you can see an example of ISIS Fourier, which I'll show you in a bit the details on.
But I wanted to show how significant the exclusions are here.
It's just on the low energy ad injection.
You have over 100mm. I'm not a magnet design person, but I'm guessing the folks won't be happy about that if I ask them to make one like this.
Uh, fortunately, it's asymmetric, so we don't have as much on the the extraction side, but it's still ends up being pretty big.
There is a way to reduce this, but it comes at the cost of energy, which.
Here you can see a from a previous design.
Iteration we can subdivide use one uh, super oh one hybrid bend unit, the superconducting and normal conducting magnets.
He would split so that we have a normal connect to here and here between superconductor segments and so on.
I have reducing the exclusion size to the point where it's on the order of the beam size of all.
But as you can see here from again, these are earlier iterations.
It has a serious impact on injection energy. Uh, we haven't applied this yet to the current designs.
Uh, but we'll be doing that in the near future.
Unless I. Get the excellent news from someone in Maggie magazine that.
Oh, yeah, these exclusions are totally fine. I doubt I'm getting that. So are we going to have to do that now?
I'm going to break this into two parts at this point, uh, for acceleration.
And look at 65 to 1.54 to have first, which fits quite nicely on Fermilab's site.
Oaks one and two in hopefully the Tevatron tunnel.
We don't know for sure if we can fit that because of the geometry, but the circumference is at least set so that we can in principle fit it.
And then you have the site filling for S3 at 15.5km in circumference.
Uh. Uh, this one is two pi kilometers in circumference, so I don't need a scale.
This is just two kilometers in diameter for that.
So. Here's how we end up getting through that.
Uh, getting through that acceleration phase. Uh, again, injecting at 63 jev, we end up extracted at 1.54 Kev.
You can see the energy ratio is lower on the first two arcs.
Uh. One of the reasons and the first one you see here, it's more than 50% quadrupole, which is far from ideal.
Uh, so that's one of the things that we're going to work on. I'll talk a bit about that in a minute, hopefully on time.
Uh, and you can see that we have 12 super periods in each one,
and we're changing on a number of, uh, number of cells and a number of arc cells quite a bit.
Uh, we're actually decreasing the number of arc cells.
Uh, when we go into X-2, which is superconductor, which is a hybrid rather than a ramped only or conventional arcs,
and you see that the average accelerating gradient is decreased a little bit in x two and three compared to x one, since our.
So, uh, decay rate is going to be highest in osseous one.
We're using a higher energy, a high accelerating gradient, to get up to higher energies where we will have a lower k weight.
Uh, we're trying to get up to that faster. Uh, this is just some of the parameters for it.
We're pretty far off question our acceleration, as you can see.
Uh, our super populated, uh, single 20, which I had on the side of blue, but forgot to mention that.
No, I did mention. Yeah, we need to keep that small. Fortunately, it's ten to the minus two, so that's fine.
Uh, however, Sigma PC, uh, is, uh, what we're using to, uh, gauge our, uh, the degree of mismatch.
We try to keep the energy mismatch. The energy gain super divided by the injection energy.
Uh, we try to keep that to about the same order as of you.
You can see it's around twice that in red, depending on the wing, but we're hoping to improve that a bit.
But to do that, we'll have to make a sacrifice on energy range.
So we're a bit hesitant to do it. The issue becomes that.
The larger mismatch is, the greater the potential for non-linear effects, and potentially meaning even larger apertures than we're already estimating.
Uh, some other people families survival rate. You see pulling we're getting better than 0.9.
So better than 90% pulling. And by three we're at, uh, better than 78% survival.
Uh, total, um, handful of tunes in these ones, especially the first one, um,
that's just ends up being the way it is because, uh, how quickly will accelerating that wing, uh.
Like I said earlier. Injection and extraction. Pretty small.
We need less than a meter at 0.2 Tesla.
Uh, in the, you know, kick magnets, we'd need less than a immediate for injection into one.
And on the high end, 4.5m to extract out of a box three utility drifts.
There are two sell. They end up replacing the, uh, the bending magnets that you saw in the the orc cells only, uh.
They were substantially larger than the injection extraction kit.
So we're all right on that. Uh. Now getting up from 1.54 to 512.
We have three scenarios here one a 15.50, sorry a one.
So a 35 kilometer ring. I'm saying numbers that gave me up that other accelerators circumference.
Uh, so 35km circumference going off site.
Uh, to do it in a single ring to go from, you know, about a factor of three here.
If we instead use two rings off site, we can decrease it to, uh, 30 up to 27km.
And if we put a fourth, if we put Oxford in the same town as ISIS three.
You on site. We can then get to, uh, 2.7 TeV on site, and then use a single ring off site to get to five TeV.
At that point, we're looking at 22km. So getting closer to the site, uh, limits, but still not quite there.
Uh, is the primary fluid, as you can see.
Uh, the only time we're seeing a factor of three is for asks for a scenario aid design, which is that 35 kilometer one.
Uh, also, we've reduced the average accelerating again to, uh, one mega volume to, uh,
just to make it easy to fit everything together and to keep our accelerating gradient,
uh, to keep our average energy, uh, energy gain per super period divided by our energy.
That is. Yeah. Uh, forgive me for a mismatch to keep that low, uh, and keep our number of our cells that we need.
Uh, yeah. Packing fractions are looking. Better.
Still not great for these wings at least. But they're better than at least one was.
Uh. I have parameters.
Yeah. A little closer to quest, but still off quest.
Um. We are again so that it would have to between these, uh.
And, uh, I if I will wait for each of these, since we're using the same average gradient based indicator.
We end up with 65% left, uh, of only ones at the end of it.
And again, the kickers fit quite easily inside of this.
Um. Just for an idea of it. This is what it looks like for if we end up putting a sign with man.
Uh, so if I look for the center of mass energy, um, there will also be a red point.
You. But one of them. But that purple dot for that ox.
Uh, five B and C caboose up. Ox for a.
So, uh, it would be there as well. Uh, now, how do we actually get to five TV?
Can we get to five TV? TV with the industrially? Uh, potentially.
Uh, though it's going to require some extreme magnets.
Uh zunes. Uh, Espoo submission, uh,
does have this one sided design in the Espoo submission does have a rather
extreme magnet coil dominated at three Tesla with a 500 Tesla per second ramp.
It's slower than the other ones, but, uh, still pretty fast ramping.
And assuming that it could be done. Would it be enough? And it is.
Yeah, we can work with that. Uh, I think they would.
Wait. So we would end up needing, uh, there is only 2.57 Tesla to actually do it, but it would take two wings if we tried to fit it on the site.
Plus that neighboring industrial area. So, uh.
Those. If anyone has a question about that. Yeah.
So yeah, we're able to reach it through a few scenarios for it.
And we're going to be working on reducing mismatch and exclusions and tracking simulations next.
Um, so if anyone has any questions I mean I still have time for that probably.
All right. We have time for one quick question. I think this morning we saw, um, this morning we saw a presentation on the risk assessment,
uh, and costs associated with different design alternatives.
Uh, you spoke about the magnet board being or the magnet size being an issue with some of these designs.
And so we're trying to compensate by using more super periods.
Do you have any sense for the cost differences or the technical risk of the different alternatives you've presented?
So um, short answer.
Is the scenario A is going to be cheapest since it can be anywhere to at least since it involves the least amount of additional be mine.
Since that's the magnets and RF not really are interested in magnets.
Are you leaving cost contributions? So, uh,
that the reason to try and minimize the off site circumference or avoid it entirely is
because otherwise you have to get people to let you build an accelerator under the house,
which. It's not the easiest thing to convince people.
Maybe we can, but better off if we don't need to in the first place.
Thanks. I have one under my house.
I think. Okay.
Our next speaker is Austin Hooper from Oak Ridge National Laboratory.
Stable. Okay.
Um. Thank you. Um, okay, so I'll be discussing the proton driver, um, which is the first stage in the muon collider.
And I'll specifically be discussing the possibility of using the Spallation Neutron Source as a testbed for the proton driver, um, technology.
Um, so, uh, I'll start by discussed, uh, describing the SNS, um, its basic operating parameters and comparing to the muon collider.
Um, I'll also focus on the unique beam diagnostics in the SNS.
Um, and then the third part of my talk will describe the feasibility of a bunch of compression experiments in the SNS.
Um, and finally, uh, show some preliminary experiments and simulations.
Um, so I'll start with the overview of the SNS. Well, sorry.
Uh, just first, um, uh, just giving an overview of the Muon collider, and we're focusing on this little, um, purple triangle.
Um, so the the goal of the proton driver is to create extremely high density proton bunches that collide with the target to produce pions,
which eventually decay into muons. Um, currently, the the current Ehmke uh design report.
I think that's where this figure is from.
Uses one ring for accumulation, and then a separate ring for, uh, compression and merging of different bunches.
Uh, this design isn't set in stone, but I'll assume this is the basic, uh, idea.
Um, the operating or desired, uh, parameters of the bunch include, uh,
2 to 4MW of beam power at 5 to 10 GeV, energy, uh, around ten hertz repetition rate.
And the final bunch will be only two nanoseconds long. So, uh, these are, uh, very difficult parameters to satisfy.
So the current high power facilities are just below two megawatts.
Um, and they haven't demonstrated this compression yet.
Um, okay. Um, the SNS, uh, this is an overview of that SNS at Oak Ridge National Lab.
Uh, it's a very close analog to the the proton driver.
So, um, we start with an H minus linac, um, including an RFQ and kind of a standard front end at 42 milliamps, beam current.
And then we have a partially normal conducting and partially superconducting linac that accelerates the, the beam to, uh.
Uh, but now it's 1.3 GeV. This is an old slide.
Um, those, uh, bunches are injected into an accumulator ring.
So we inject a thousand, what we call mini pulses into the ring.
Um. We use charge exchange injection.
So we have a foil that strips two electrons from the minus particles.
Um, and this final bunch has on the order of ten to the 14, uh, protons.
Um, so this is essentially a compression of one very long post from the linac into about 700 nanoseconds.
Um, and finally, that beam is sent to the target at, uh, currently 1.8MW at 60Hz.
Uh, so. So the beam power of the SNS has slowly climbed over time since its, uh, creation.
Um, it's only recently that we started operating at around 1.4, um, megawatts, uh, stabilize to the past, like five years.
And currently we are on a on a mission to increase the beam power to 2.8MW over the next few years.
So that is, uh, going to be a world leading, uh, beam power.
Okay. Um, a couple unique things to highlight about SNS.
Um, we have a quite sophisticated injection painting scheme.
So this is just the variation of the position and momentum of the injected beam.
And this allows us to modulate the collective effects in the ring.
Um, we also have the ability to tune the, uh, ring energy over a big range.
So 1.3 down to 0.8 GV. Um, this will amplify collective effects which scale inversely with the beam energy.
Um, so, uh, compared to the muon collider, um, it may be too faint to see there's supposed to be a light gray region.
Um, here. Um, on the vertical axis, we have basically a measure of longitudinal density divided by the energy.
This is called the pervious. So this is a measure of space charge strength um, versus the bunch length in the ring.
So normally that the bunch fills about three quarters of the ring.
Um, so this would be, uh, a compressed bunch.
And you can see that the space charge increasing.
Um, so we think that if we reached significant compression, we would start to probe the envisioned muon collider space charge, uh, regime.
If we further decrease the energy to 0.8 GeV, um, then we might be able to exceed it, um, because of the strong inverse scaling of space charge.
Um, we also have a few different diagnostics in the ring to measure the beam.
Um, I won't go through all these, but, um, I'll highlight especially an electron scanner,
which will give us the density at the transverse density of the bunch on every turn.
Um, like instant feedback. Um, and also a set of wire scanners.
So these provides, um. Constraints on the accumulated bunch.
So we can take a set of these one dimensional wire scanner measurements and infer what is the two dimensional phase space distribution,
or the four dimensional distribution as a function of time during injection.
So these are all things we could use to benchmark, uh, beam dynamics experiments in the SNS.
Um, okay. Uh, I'll move on to, um, possible the possibility of a bunch of compression experiments in the SNS.
So we basically need to do two things for these experiments.
Um, first, we need to accumulate the bunch. And the goal here is to accumulate the bunch with a very small spread in energy.
So the vertical axis here is the energy deviation from the synchronous particle or the reference particle.
And the horizontal axis is the, um the distance along the bunch z.
Um, so when we rotate the bunch, um, probably most of you are familiar with this, this picture.
Um, uh, the final spread in Z will be basically the initial spread in D, um, plus some nonlinear, uh, tails.
So first goal is to accumulate, uh, with something called barrier waveforms.
And I'll talk about those shortly. Um, and the second stage is to just take a single cavity.
H equals one means it's the same frequency as the ring.
Um, and turn that, turn this to maximum voltage and compress the bunch, uh, as fast as possible.
And we call this, um, rotation bunch rotation. Um, so our current RF system, uh, uses, uh, two harmonics H equals one and h equals two.
Um, this is some, uh, uh, data, some measured, um, bunch profiles versus turn number.
So we basically just accumulate the bunch for a thousand turns, um, and immediately extract it.
So the second harmonic here is basically broadening the beam profile.
Um. We actually have four of these cavities, so we only use the first column.
Here is the um. Uh h equals one cavity and the second is the h equals two cavity.
Um, and we only run those at about half, half of their design voltage, which is um.
Almost 13 kilovolts, so we only ran about six kilovolts.
So if we include all these cavities together, we do have some extra, um, RF power that we could try to use to rotate the bunch.
Um, these plots basically show, um, as a function of time that the RF, uh, drive amplitude and phase.
So the beam is coming in, uh, right about here. Um.
Okay, but I'm actually going to focus on the first question first, which is accumulation.
Um, so how do we minimize the energy spread of the accumulated bunch?
Um, there's a couple ideas. We're not quite sure how to do this yet, but we have a couple ideas.
So, um, the first is just to simply turn off the cavities, so there's just no, ah, focusing at all.
Um, but we found that there was so much, uh, beam induced voltage in the cavities that, uh, this really limits the beam intensity.
So, um, a second idea is to try to use a feedback system in the RF cavities, um, to force neurons that, uh, zero net voltage.
So applied plus beam induced voltage. Um, so this is a recent experiment we did where, um, it's showing the measured RF voltage in the cavity.
Um, so basically it slowly ramps to its set point, which is here, uh, five kilovolts.
And this little bump is where the beam comes in. So that's a beam induced voltage drop in this case.
But then the feedback system is is offsetting that.
So we get back to five kilovolts. Um, so the idea would be to set.
That the voltage is too close to zero.
Um, so here we set it to 1.5 kilovolts, and you can see it's working a little bit harder, but it does get back to 1.5.
And here we set it to 0.5. And there's a kind of huge spike here.
So we're interested in pursuing this more and seeing if we can kind of damp this huge, um, excitation.
This was for a very low beam current. So we want to try this at much higher, uh, beam currents in the future.
Um, a third idea is to, um, use additional harmonics.
So I mentioned this idea of a barrier waveform. Um, a barrier waveform is basically just a square.
Well. So basically, there's no refocusing except at the very edges compared with a normal, um, sine wave.
And that's going to maintain a very small energy spread in the bunch.
So if you take, um, four frequencies, uh, h equals one through four here,
you can create something that's pretty flat, that could kind of, um, satisfy this this requirements.
Um. Actually, this was, uh, simulated a long time ago.
Um, we haven't reproduced the simulations yet. Um, these these are the, um.
Uh uh. Uh.
Waveforms in blue. The combined waveform sits fairly flat in the center of the bunch.
And this green curve is the energy distribution compared with the nominal and red.
So this could also be promising. Um, but it's unclear if we can do this with the current hardware.
So we may need new, uh, ferrite rings in our cavities.
So a new hardware upgrade, but it is possible.
Um, the last option would just be to install a new RF system, um, which is very, very, uh, expensive.
Um, uh, there may be space to do this, but it's kind of a last resort right now.
Um, okay. Uh, so that's the accumulation phase.
Uh, the the second phase is compression. So can we actually compress the bunch?
Um. Just some quick numbers.
We. Let's say we just have two cavities. We would have about 20 kilovolts, um, of voltage.
Um, that would give synchrotron period of about 20 turns.
And so a bunch rotation would happen at about 500 turns.
Um, so you could do a bit better if you had lower energy or higher RF power.
Um, this is much longer than the muon collider.
The muon collider would compress in, like, tens of turns. Um, but it may be enough to still study the same physics during compression.
Um, there's some other specific issues here.
Um, um. That are maybe not so exciting for this group, but there's some technical issues, um, that need to be overcome.
So it's an engineering, uh, problem mostly. Um, and this last one is just, um,
the optimal RF settings accounting for the space charge of the beam and the beam induced voltages in the cavity that needs to be studied.
Uh, still. Um.
Okay. Uh, briefly show, uh, just an initial experiments.
So, um, just if you don't know, at operational facilities like SNS,
we only have one day per month to do experiments, and sometimes it's canceled, so maybe a few few chances per year.
So we wanted to do something easy. Um, so what we did is we basically, um.
Set, the H equals one cavity to ten kilovolts.
Here. Um. Uh.
Um, because this is quite a low voltage. The synchrotron period is quite long.
Um, and we chose to inject for only 300 turns.
So that means that, um, the bunch only rotates a little bit during injection.
So it kind of smears out the distribution. But after that we just store the beam and it, it rotates.
And so you should see some, some compression. So the the idea here was to get just some benchmarking data.
Um, um, so this plot up here shows the Rmse bunch length versus turn number.
So 300 turns is when we stopped injecting.
And here you see the the bunch rotation in black I'm sorry in red.
Um um, the profiles for these cases are shown at a few different turns on the bottom.
Um, the black curves here from a simulation.
Uh, we made some assumptions about the initial distribution and kind of fit those parameters to the data.
And we got a pretty good, um, agreement. In the future, we'll try to reconstruct this distribution from these, uh, profiles.
Performance. Okay. Thanks. Um, yeah, I'm almost done here.
So, um, just a note about future modeling concerns for these compression experiments.
Um, there's different codes to choose from.
The accelerator physicists will be familiar with some of these, um,
and they need to be benchmarked across each other or to each other and against real data.
Um, there's also different ways to handle space charge, weight fields, um, etc.
Um, and this effect, electron cloud is something that is not in most of these codes,
um, that we know exists at the Sims and may or may be influenced by the compression.
So we're interested in studying that. Um.
One specific effect is, uh, nonlinear space charge forces.
So we expect a fourth order resonance to develop as the bunch density increases during compression.
Um, in the transverse phase space. Um, and we also expect non-linear effects in the longitudinal phase space.
And we could measure all these distributions, um, using our, our current diagnostics.
So it'd be interesting to um, understand those.
Well, when we're designing the proton driver.
Um, yeah. In conclusion, um, we're, we've started some, some experiments at SNS.
There's some engineering challenges and, uh, we're interested in and continuing these studies.
So, uh. Thank you. Couple questions.
Uh, could you expand on those engineering challenges? Um, well, not much, because I'm not an engineer.
Um, but the challenges, um.
Let's go back to the. Um, these would be the, the, the main challenges.
So.
Can we, um, modify our current hardware software to run our cavities at different harmonics, even though they're, they're developed for only 1 or 2?
Um, um, this is also a possible challenge in designing the optimal feedback system to offset the beam induced voltage during compression.
So those are two. Yeah.
I, uh, I'm a little bit puzzled. Uh. When you are talking about compressing the bunch.
Why you just don't slow the energy of the linac.
We have plenty of time. I mean. System to basically overlap itself.
I'm not sure I understand. It could lower the energy.
To do what? Exclude the energy of the linac during the pulse.
Initial pulse coming with lower energy. Initial portion of the forthcoming lion energy, then final fossil soldier.
Energy of the beam will be spread, and it'll normally, uh, keep bunching itself.
Um, so introduce some energy chirp, essentially.
And then it will be like this in longitudinal phase space and go like, like that.
That was proposed by Natalia. Um, at, uh.
What's your last name? Yes. She has this idea. Um, we can't do it in the SNS because, um.
Uh. We have this bent.
So, um. Yeah, that that there's tight constraints on the the energy spread among the many pulses.
I mean, you you lost it. But anyway, you are doing the experiment. Mhm.
Trying to to see what you can. Uh, yeah.
At low, at low rep rates. Maybe. Maybe we could do it.
Um, we haven't looked into that. Really? Okay.
Okay. Okay, I have to secure it somewhere.
You're going to have an important lesson. Okay, so, um, today's my talk about the, uh, target system.
All right. So, um, as you heard many times.
So I don't go to repeat, but there, uh, the important parameters are, uh, to create a target, we have to take a look at the.
What is the initial, uh, input program being power. So we expect, like, a ten to the 50s and, uh, per bunch or post bail.
And again, uh, as previous speaker sets, uh, the bunch of angles is very short, and the rep rate is like a, uh, five hertz.
So therefore, uh, estimated proton drive, a proton power is like, uh, uh, six mega, uh, six megawatt.
So that's basically, uh, based on this, like a numbers. So, uh, this is very challenging.
Uh, there's no target system which can accept such a, uh, beam so far.
Um, before I, uh, go into the detail, I just want to recap in mind.
What is the target? So the target is actually the one with a primary function with a target.
Either we convert that like a proton beam into the, uh, the secondary particle.
Secondary particle most likely. Uh, uh, like a finite lifetime.
So, um, this means that we have to collect the record the secondary particle effectively.
Okay. So this means that, uh, when we send the proton beam into the target and the target lengths typically like a 1 or 2, like, uh,
interaction or X and create a, like a secondary, and we put their, uh,
collection or focus in magnet to like, uh, concentrate, uh, the secondary particle.
And the third mission is, uh uh, we also have to think about how we maintain how we like, uh, uh, safely, uh, operate as a system.
So that's like a three, uh, main missions we have to take into account to design the target.
So this means, uh, this is like our, uh, three domain structures.
Uh, first we have to definitely. Most people here is a physicist.
We look at their. What is a view you we can create and what is like a, you know, phase space after the target system.
And then, um, also, we have to, uh, discuss with the engineering folks what is like our,
uh, the target which can stand for, uh, such kind of, like, intensity proton beam.
So this means here the, uh, engineering folks look at this, uh, stress analysis.
And they also have to understand what is a mechanical property which can be, uh, degraded,
um, during a, like a, uh, like a the beam operation because of their, uh, radiation damage.
So that's like the other, uh, important parameters.
And the third one is the safety and maintenance.
So definitely, uh, in practice, uh, in a simulation design, we never thought about, like, safety or maintenance, but in reality,
we have to think about what is a lifetime and what is a tolerance of the system itself and the some point we have to replace the like the system.
So so those are like a very, quite important parameters.
So we have to take into account like a three main domain.
Um, so by the way, so this is kind of like a uh iteration cycle to like a design the channel.
So, uh, if we have like a very sophisticated AI, um, machine learning system,
I think we add this like a machine learning can take into account all three components together.
So this means that we need a, some interface between like a physics input and an engineering input and a safety input.
So far there is no such interface. So that is our main issue right now.
Anyway, so what is a challenge?
So the, uh, um, we have, uh, very low, uh, uh, experience about like, a practical target system for the high energy physics.
Um, this means our, uh, most pi, um, production data.
Of course, there are tons of data, but most data come from a, uh, so-called, uh, think target.
So means, like, a, uh, the target system is very, very easy to minimize, uh, like, uh, additional interactions.
But our case, we need a thick target to create a, uh, pions, as many as possible.
Also, uh, like, uh, if we, uh, uh, accumulate the beam or, uh,
beam the position which drastically influence the like a, uh, material properties change.
Unfortunately, we don't have much like, a database, uh, to, like, predict what is a material properties change due to the radiation.
Okay. Uh, so the second part is, uh, very efficient, insufficient understanding of high intensity effects.
So the past, uh, target system, we don't send a match to, like, a B primary B,
but our case, uh, record, uh, in the distance between, uh, product B is nanometer scale.
So therefore definitely the proton get into the, uh, the, the material it induces, um, plasma.
So this plasma actually induces some local field which induce like, uh, some effects on,
uh, like a primary and secondary B we don't have a such like a model right now.
So that is like, uh, other, uh, possible concern.
Third one is, uh, there's no robust design to eliminate the contamination, uh, over the, uh, in a mean phase space.
So we talk about, like, uh, the target and, uh, focusing magnet, but differentially primary beam still remaining.
So there even, like a two interaction and a longer target, but still like a 10% of the primary protons remaining.
So that proton is very, uh, uh, um, evil for the the downstream of beam.
Like, we have to, uh, design how to eliminate the, like, our, uh, such kind of primary beam.
Okay. Uh, the last one is, uh.
Um. Yeah, that's right guys, I said.
Uh, we don't have a, like, our, uh, we should like a green dot on the domain, like a B map.
Uh, like a physics output, uh, engineering output and, uh, uh, safety output to make a satellite, uh, design.
Uh, we should have a, like, a, uh, like a, uh, analytical or semi analytical model to optimize those, like a cycle.
But unfortunately, we don't have any, like, a, uh, guide.
Right? Right now. Okay.
Uh, then the last one is, uh, the radiation tolerance means we send a proton beam, intense proton beam and create a secondaries.
Definitely. We should have some diagnostic system.
What is the target condition? What is a beam condition?
So that just diagnostic system has to be radiation reversed.
And we also have a, like a ceiling, uh, to protect, for instance, like a superconducting magnet.
Um, and also we have to think about the remote handling, how we like, uh, depress a target, and, uh, shielding.
That's like the design is needed. Uh, we also have a instruct infrastructure.
Uh, if we heat up the target, we have to clear it out.
So we need a, like, a, uh, cooling manifold, uh, gas plan for or a support structure.
Okay. All right. So, um, first I, I'd like to say, like, uh, how much we know about the, uh, like, a pie in production.
So the pie in production, there is a Sam model theory and lots of, uh, theories, uh, produce.
But most likely, uh, the theory is actually, uh, to ideal in the real case, uh, we like to use, like, a pie, um, production rate, using a,
like a, uh, phenomenological model, which means that in case of the Gen four, we use, like a Bertini model, uh, to create a, like a soft pio's.
Soft Pio means like our, uh, if the proton kinetic energy is above regular, about 200 MeV, then we start creating a pions.
So those pions, us, uh, so-called the soft bio. And, uh, uh, why would I like a dictionary?
Uh uh, so called the Delta residents and the Delta residents is their regular excitation with a proton beam.
And, uh, I'm sorry, the proton and the proton is a decay.
And, uh, and induce a sound like a perfume. Uh, right.
As a secondary, uh, particle. So this, like a type of, like a production, uh, pion can be a kinetic energy around, like a 3000 day move.
And the cross-section is quite large, like, up to, like, 100 mega, uh, burn.
And uh, uh, there's other, uh, methods that's like a, uh, like a multiplicity,
so called a multiplicity that's like a, uh, sometimes called or the merge by production again.
So the cross-section is quite large still like a micro bar, a mini bar, uh, within the range, like at 1 to 10 GB.
Uh, again. So this pions are typically like a kinetic kinetic energy.
Uh, I don't this 300 moves. And the pioneer distribution is a kind of isotropic.
Uh. After the python, uh, created.
So the python eventually decay and making, like, a Mayans.
That's what we want. And as you know, the lifetime of a python is a, uh, like a 2.5, a 2.6 times ten to the minus eight gamma seconds.
So this means, like, uh, within, like a 30m, uh, almost like 90% of the pythons, uh, decay and, uh, record producer like a moo moo.
Plus or minus. And interestingly, me on kinetic energy is very low compared in like a pile, uh, in a stationary state.
Uh, me on kinetic energy is only four, uh, MeV, which means that by comparing a pie on kinetic energy.
So, uh, me on contribution is very, very small by comparing a rag, a pile, uh, kinetic energy.
So this means the initial, uh, me on phase space is most likely predominantly determined by the energy energy, energy, uh, spread.
So one possible idea is, uh, if we could have a way to cool the initial pions,
then maybe we could like a mitigated, like a cooling, uh, for the later stage.
However, of course, the issue is a pion has a, like, a shorter lifetime, and the pion has a some strong interactions.
Maybe, uh, we as. But enough. Maybe we can find some way later.
I just want to keep you, Abi. Um. So, um.
As I said. So that passed like a pie in production measurement is or uh, usually happens in a thin target,
but in reality, so that we want it to have a thick target, which is, uh, like a multiple interaction length.
So this means, uh, we we should have a more like a stochastic process because the pi, um,
primary, uh, channel is like a proton creates a, like a pion, uh, from a target material.
But this python could also interact with our, uh, material if, uh, the target length is longer.
So just like, uh, uh, additional, like, uh, multiplication actually induce more like uncertainties.
Uh, so which is, uh, making a huge uncertainty if we have a, like, a multiplicity.
So that's the reason why, especially for the neutrino target system, we usually have a, like a, uh, like a pie, uh,
measurement using a, like a, uh, creating a, like a prototype target system and putting a, a, uh, spectrometer.
So this is a, uh, two, uh, examples. Why the so-called A61 shine, uh, at, uh, uh, CERN.
So the we have a, like a beam and we, uh, have a target.
So this target has, uh, can be like our, uh, prototype target, uh, like a very thick target here.
And we could measure the the spectrum of the secondary particles, or, uh,
recently Fermilab develop or, uh, like a very compact, uh, uh, spectrometer, uh, by comparing, like,
a shine so that the in a 61 shine, the tolerance is about 20m, but emphasis it is so-called with the emphasis,
uh, so we can put the target again, uh, uh, before that, like this, like, uh, spectrometer.
But the total length is, uh, uh, the spectrometer itself is like a one meter.
So the we could try to make, uh, like a similar type of measurement using a, like a conductor spectrometer.
So this is one possible, like a consideration, like R&D, uh, items we have to think about for the future.
So according to the radiation's damage.
So this is kind of like a, uh, very, uh, uh, like a schematic, uh, like a simulation.
Uh, so, so each point corresponds to that, like a target material.
And, uh, uh, so this, like a, uh, simulation starts from our, uh, primary, uh, knockout, uh, atom, which is actually,
uh, primary particle knockout, uh, like a, uh, like a secondary particle, which is actually corresponds to, uh, PCA.
And the PCA is, uh, the activity low energy and this low energy actually interact with, uh, like a, uh, like a nuclei of the material,
uh, because the kinetic energy is so low, so that the, this particle can directly interact with the nuclei.
So this makes a such cascade. And, uh, the red one is a lack of placement, the material, uh, the particle.
And it is like a process suddenly like a, uh, enhance.
So as you see the like a time structure. So the, uh, zero picoseconds we studied here and the ten because, uh,
the point eight picoseconds, it's already like a, uh, very drastically increased.
But there is a, uh, because like, uh, the summer effects.
So the sand particle is actually went back to that original regulators position.
So overall. So the, uh, if you look at the initial and the final, uh, is out so that, uh, we have only like a few particles I actually displaced.
Uh, this amount is so called the displacement atom.
So, uh, in this example, we have like a five or like a displacement.
Uh, dpa. So this DPA is actually the, uh, scaling, uh, to, uh, a variate like, uh, uh uh, uh, radiation damage.
And as I said, uh, we have to look at the mechanical properties change due to the radiation.
So, uh, the high energy physics, physics community, we don't have much like, uh,
information database for the this, like, a, uh, type of, like a, um, material change measurement,
but, uh, nuclear reactor group actually take a lot of, like, a data point, uh,
so we could, like, extrapolate, uh, their results for the high energy physics,
but because, uh, like, a kinetic energy is completely different, some some model doesn't, uh, uh, much do that, uh, for the high energy physics, uh,
target system, but this one showing, like, uh, if we like a, um, uh, send a, like, a, uh, charged particle into the material building material.
So how the stress strain Covid, uh, changed.
And, uh, in the past, we don't have any, uh, good model to predict, like a, uh, reproduced, uh, like the behavior, but recently,
uh, they use, like, uh, uh, quantum computer grid to start making a such, like, a, uh, reproduction in a simulation.
So we have to definitely use, uh, their, uh, expertise for our experiment.
Uh, for our, uh, system. This case, we don't need a, like, a, uh, like a, uh, beam radiation measurement.
But we can predict what type of a material we can use for our system.
Uh, so the more that, uh, degradation issues. Uh, so there are lots of, like, uh, uh, mechanical parameters.
That's a macroscopic parameters. And again, unfortunately, we don't have a any good model to translate from, uh,
like a simulation results into a, like a this like a, uh, macroscopic, uh, uh, issue.
So that's an issue. Uh, we have to develop, uh, like a, uh, like a simulation tool.
Uh, the other interest is, uh, uh, if we use a, some specific material, uh, uh,
some material can be, uh, annealed during a beam radiation so that if we heat up so that,
uh, some ratty structure is, uh, reconstruct, and, uh, uh, actually, we actually, uh, come back some, like our, uh, mechanical property.
So that's it. Like, uh, such annealing is dominant, especially like a graphite.
So that's the reason why some people look at a graphite target for the intense beam for, uh, applications.
So this is an example. So the how Riker sweating is, uh uh uh, if we create, like, a, uh, like a helium bubble,
which is caused by the radiation, but the sweating, actually, uh, it's gone if we increase, like, a temperature.
So this type of Riker, uh, features, uh, we could utilize, uh, we did, uh, use this, uh, Riker feature for their, like, high power target system.
Okay. Uh, all right, so I should go very quickly, so I have only one minute.
Uh, so we have other, uh, idea, uh, for the, uh, radiation robust, uh, target system.
Why isn't, uh, nano fiber? Uh, why would a, uh, the most critical Riker, uh, issues, uh, for the target user?
Uh, heat. Uh uh uh, heat shock.
Like a thermal shock. If you have, like, uh, uh, nanostructure, uh, you can eliminate the, like, a heat shock propagation into the material.
So that's a idea we we have, like, another fiber. Um, uh, target a production system, and we tested the otherwise ah, uh, high entropy alloy here.
So that is, ah, uh, like a similar idea. So the, uh, because the structure is very like a chaotic.
So, uh, the, the, the some are stress actually hard to propagate through.
So therefore the, uh, we can use, like a, uh, itchy type or the material for the, uh, very high radioactive environment.
Uh, there's the issue, the idea. Like using a liquid and the fruit as a target study.
Uh, so if we have a microstructure, then somewhere. So please note that the, uh, the most concern.
So there is a several like a, there are several, like a target system, like a lithium.
Mercury. Uh, red this Mars, uh, target fluidized the tanks there.
Now, they have actually, uh, is applied for the high energy physics yet.
So the there are several, uh, issues still, and we have to go through the R&D.
All right. Uh, okay. So, uh, uh, we again, so IDPs three, uh, emphasize we need some measurement or simulation.
So this is the one possible simulation, uh, as I said, so that if we have a very intense proton case,
uh, we create a lot of plasma situation where the, like a, uh, ionized electron go into the material.
That's a mystery. Big mystery. We have to understand how the electron propagates through the material.
So that's like we have possibly like a simulation, uh, tool to, uh, understand, like our, uh, ionized electrons.
Okay. So this is like, uh, we propose, like a diagnostic system for the, uh, radiation, robust environment.
Uh, one possibility is, uh, uh, like measuring, uh, uh, reflectivity of the material so the reflectivity can be, uh, changed by the radiation damage.
So I have a, like, the area, uh, about, uh, to investigate the this, uh, uh, um, uh,
detector system, the otherwise, uh, uh, for instance, we got these, uh, uh, uh, radiation robust.
So maybe we can use this, uh, technology for their, uh, target system.
Okay. Um. All right, so, uh, this is like, uh, two possible scheme.
Okay. So why is that solenoid. Uh, to correct the magnet.
Uh, correct the pions or, uh, horns. So we recently developed our alcohol, uh, uh, mechanism.
I think of wrong. Could be other candidate to correct the pions.
All right, so this is part summary. Uh, probably I should omit the summary.
So that's all. Take a question or two, then we're going to.
Okay. Yeah.
So I was wondering, uh, how much how things scale with intensity or if you've got a feel for that, like if you would only need a third.
The number that's presently designed, does that clear up everything or or does it.
It's a more linear or quadratic. So which parameter you talk about the number of muons that we desire to make for the collider.
Uh, yeah. So in simulation that's different.
Use like a linear scale. Right.
But. But then in reality, we don't know. That's right. Or not.
Most likely we expect, like our, uh, reco, uh, correction effects, uh, induced and, uh, um, enhanced uh, inference.
The, the muon production. Pi, um, production. So that's a question mark.
I don't know what what's going on? Okay, so there was a target free experiment like 20 years ago, the merit experiment.
And that was a liquid that was a liquid mercury target.
And that was, you know, that was a multi megawatt beam that was on it.
I mean, is that being abandoned is a concept.
You briefly mentioned Mercury there, but uh, yeah.
But there it's missing a lot. So like a um R&D part.
So um, as you remember when we sent the proton beam, mercury is actually sprayed.
Yeah, right. We have to stop with such kind of like a mercury means a unit.
We need a some additional component. Okay? We don't have a such kind of, like, a structure in the market.
And they didn't do any of that kind of study. I mean, I really don't know.
I'm I'm kind of questioning that.
The second, um, the second question is, uh, couldn't a lot of this, uh, so you mentioned ten to the 15th protons per bunch, right?
Couldn't that be reduced?
Because I remember when we were trying to integrate the, um, Neutrino Factory muon collider in front end and what they did, how they did that was, uh,
the a lot of the bunching you'd have,
you'd have re bunching of cooled muons so that you would need that you wouldn't need to have such intense bunches of protons per bunch.
Is that a consideration still? Oh, so, uh, for the muon Collider, uh, the our primary, uh, uh, formula is a luminosity.
So to increase the luminosity, singular banshee's away.
Yeah, but I wouldn't say that is true, but, I mean, you would do the bunching of the muons, right?
So after initial cooling. And that might mitigate the target tree requirements upstream.
Uh, okay. So like a the branch gap between like a protons, uh, in the present, like our, uh, proton driver scheme is not, uh, record close.
So we cannot merge such kind of like a, uh, recommends like a, uh.
Yeah. Okay.
Um, I guess who was a year ago at the previous, uh, Muon Collider collaboration meeting?
I also raised the question of the mercury results for merit,
and the answer I was given was that we can't pursue that R&D because of international agreements to limit the use of mercury.
So that raises the obvious question what about lead bismuth?
Uh, uh, what's the word? I'm blanking on the word.
Yeah. Uh, nobody's working on it, I don't think.
For the neutron. Uh, like aspiration source.
People still use you. Technically, that's the word. Yeah, but but you could you could do a jet experiment, uh, a liquid, right.
So definitely making a producing a jet structure.
So you have to be like a heat up and there. Uh, right.
So those like our mechanical structure, I'm not sure how much like a, we have, like a technology.
So maybe, maybe, uh, my point is. Ah, yes, we can definitely look into like a, uh, uh, uh, read business case.
Which is similar to like a lithium lithium target also.
Uh, issues are how you heat up lithium, but there you don't have the density that we want for lithium.
Yes. But, uh, um, I think the density might be the, uh, the secondary issue.
The primary issue is how right we stand. Right.
The target within with the, like, a, uh, several megawatt, uh, uh, like a, uh, proton beam case.
Right. Well, I was going to make a comment that the IMC is pursuing a liquid led simulation and targeting study.
And so that's right. Yeah. So that was my comment.
I chose to address the history of it.
I believe that the reason why Macquarie is not actively pursue this literally in Europe, it's forbidden for this purposes.
So of course we can try to develop something that's specific for the US.
But I think it's I mean, it kind of defeats in a lot of ways the collaborative nature of us.
I think we should be working towards a common solution.
Also, my understanding is that the operating facilities using liquid mercury are trying to move away from this.
But in terms of, uh, fluids, targets, I think lead and uh, uh, fluids, tungsten or are being actively considered.
And I think that that's a possibility. And then I actually have a real question, which is you mentioned LCDs on your previous slide or two slides ago.
And what confused me is, I mean, the advantage of, oh, God.
So of course, I mean, through that you have radiation hardness, but you also have precision timing capabilities.
And I wasn't quite sure why you need those.
Um, I mean, if maybe you did explain it and they didn't get otherwise, you could just get away with standard silicon sense.
So, um, I have a now, uh, uh, big, uh, I mean, uh, the background of my experience is a neutrino experiment and a neutrino target.
Uh, so far, we don't have any, like, a robust, like our, uh, detector, the second particle detector system.
But recently we found, like, a, uh, the muon, which is actually, uh, developed from, uh, a pion decay.
Uh, we have a, like, a specific. I did locate the muon monitor downstream of the target.
This, like a meal. Uh, if, uh, has a lot of information about, like, the primary proton beam and the target system.
So if we have a, like, a time structure with a meal, we can actually target, like a with respect to the, uh, like a spectrum.
So that's, uh, actually, uh, deconstruct the like, a primary, uh, pions phase space.
So there is advantage if we use aeroguard. I want to open this up to a broader discussion.
There any last question or comment that people want to share before we go to the coffee break?
We'll was. Okay, uh, let me say something to.
With all due respect, guys, I guess I'm old enough so I don't have to care, uh, about the authorities.
So let me remind you that this field was a.
Field or group of the people who were really opening new frontiers.
And the statement it's something part of the whole somebody didn't like, uh, some material has nothing to do with.
Our attempt to use this material. I have been proponent of the liquid target, especially mercury, for the new me or whatever yogurt experiment.
These days. I never understood why we gave up one.
I mean, the statement of the object is hard to contain and stuff.
It's really not correct. It's a question of the investing little bit of time and money to find the right way of containing.
I mean, what I. What I'm trying to say.
I mean, this is. Scary.
So the future. So why? Example.
I'm sorry. Right. So why? Example?
What you say is, uh. Riker. If I were you, could we, like, go presents like the.
We use a like a mercury, uh, as a, like a target system, like outside of public.
Then they might. They're like a start, like exciting.
Oh, wow. So the. You look like the mad scientist. So the why use a such a, like a toxic material?
Similar happens like a medium. Humanity was using a mercury 400 years very carefully mentioning the future.
So I do not like against you. No, I do not against you.
Uh, but we have to also think about the, like a commonsense definition, you might say.
So, uh, maybe I need to clarify myself.
I wasn't trying to be negative in that statement.
What I was trying to say is, uh, if you look at the Ecmc designs, there is actually a design for two megawatt graphite target solar target.
Now we need to understand if this is realizable in practice or if there are any flaws in that design.
We also need to find that. But what I'm trying to what I was trying to say, I guess with my statement is if we can make solar target work,
then that's probably a preferred option rather than going towards liquid mercury.
So the beam powers, uh, we actually recently achieved like a one megawatt, uh, beam, and we sent, uh, into that, uh, graphite target.
And the graphite target, uh, doesn't looks like a no degradation.
So indeed, uh, you guys are talking about it being an experiment.
I mean, uh, and you never produce and even try to design target in about two megawatts, and we are talking about five megawatts beam prototype.
Here's a five minute. Listen, I don't want to go in shouting.
You don't need to shout. You don't need to shout. I mean, believe me, it's nothing.
Personally, I'm just calling for little bit attempt to I mean explore something.
The nature has already given us a call. Okay, okay, let's, uh, thank all of our speakers.
