# Morning Plenary

I'm Cameron Geddes, I'm your session chair.
And our first speaker will be, uh, Casey's Irani from MIT talking about, uh, other opportunities with human beings.
Kerry, looking forward to your talk. All right. Well, thank you so much. And I just want to say, uh, this is really such an incredible turnout.
Um, last year was the first year that we did this, and we had a lot of people.
And it's great to see that that excitement is maintained. So thank you to all of you, especially people who are newly coupled to this collaboration.
Uh, we're super happy to have you aboard.
So that being said, um, I'm a theorist, so I'm going to talk about some theoretical options that we could have,
uh, for what we can do with muon beams.
We talk a lot about colliding muons, but there are hopefully another set of options that we can do, um, potentially even along the way.
Um, so let's start with just sort of the basics of this property, right?
Is that before we collide, muons, the thing that we have to do is we have to accelerate them.
Um, and so important question to be asking is, is it interesting to just accelerate muons.
Do we need to collide them to get any interesting physics, or is there something else that we can do,
notably in these much earlier phases of the full scale project?
Um, and I want to present two reasons. The first reason, of course, is a strictly physics reason,
and I think that we should constantly be reminding ourselves with the most important physics reasons behind what we do is,
um, and first is that a high energy and intense beam of muons has never been realized.
We've never had a laboratory controlled, high energy, intense beam of muons.
Um, and so that's interesting for two reasons. First off, that, of course, the more energy, the more, uh, we can see in the oven.
Uh, but that kind of goes along with the idea of why we want to collide muons.
Um, but the fact that muons are a second generation fundamental particle is also something potentially new.
So there's a lot of things that we could think of, uh,
different precision tests that we could do of the standard model that we wouldn't previously had access to this sector, uh, of Standard Model physics.
Uh, the reason two is something that combines physics with a bit of logistics, which, to be honest,
is the game that we have to play in these very long term projects and that a muon meme might be available well before the full collider.
Uh, we heard a lot of interesting talks yesterday about the importance of R&D and how the biggest
uncertainty that we have is the luminosity and energy that we can create in a muon beam.
Um, so Vladimir had a lot of great, uh, projections about what that could look like.
But the reality is, having accelerated muons will likely be in our, uh, capacity well before the actual collider.
Uh, so given that we are in the business of these very long time scale and exploratory science programs with the muon clutter,
I really think that exploring the possibility of muon beams is exactly in the spirit of what we're trying to do with you on Collider.
Uh, and the question that we should be asking ourselves is, how can we utilize these muon beams at all stages of development?
So that's what I'll be walking through some options of today.
Uh, so I definitely don't want to say that we haven't done experiments dedicated with muon beams before, just in a different capacities.
And what I'm proposing, um, so to sort of warm ourselves up to what things that can be done with muons in specific.
Let's just review some previous examples.
Um, so muon beam experiments have been or are proposed to be used in a lot of different studies pertaining to properties of the muon,
nuclear structure, materials science, and much more.
Uh, so to give you, uh, some bearings about what properties of muons we've studied, for example,
we all know this very famous experiment that happened most recently at Fermilab, uh, which is studying the muon magnetic moment.
Um, so muon g minus two, of course, requires a very high dedicated amount of muons.
There's also a lot of other experiments, um, at Fermilab, at P.s.i, uh, Jay Park, that deal with studying the violation of muon number.
So looking very specifically at muons to see if they convert to electrons, um, or if they can violate that lepton number in any of these processes.
So all of these experiments need low energy but intense neon beams.
Um, other things that we've done with muons is studying nuclear structure with things, uh, like compass or Compass two at CERN, for example.
Um, and they can look at different spin structures, polarizations, uh, and whatnot of these different materials.
So we can use sort of properties of the muons to be able to study, uh, things that are in QCD as well.
Um, and one other nice example that we have is this idea of Musser, which is muon spin rotation relaxation, depending on who you ask.
Um, and this is a great property that we have this kind of a crossover with material science.
So you can bombard materials with this polarized muon beams.
And then you can learn a lot about the material properties.
Um, so very clearly in different kinds of walks of science, having a muon beam is quite useful.
Um, so part I, I put this up just to make sure that we all are on the same page, that physics with muons is not novel.
But also that there's a lot of other things that we can explore besides just smashing things together and see what comes out.
Um, so if you're not familiar with these experiments, I really suggest that you take some time to learn about them,
because there might be some other things that we can do to improve our understanding, um, of the Standard Model.
And then I note that I want to have is I personally like to think about the BSM scenarios of all these things.
Um, and the back side of any sort of precision physics measurement that you're doing is you're secretly also studying new physics.
Uh, because any deviation from the precision measurement is going to be indication of dynamics that we don't yet understand.
So all of these experiments are also experiments for potentially beyond the Standard Model phenomena.
That being said, all of these muon experiments have one important thing in common that we hope to be able to achieve,
uh, with the muon collider, but we have not yet achieved, and that is that they don't have accelerated human beings.
These muon beams are coming from the capture of the same tertiary particle production that we hope to utilize that muon clutter.
Uh, but instead they're just sort of selecting the right muons and focusing them a bit rather than taking them from stopped and accelerate them.
Uh, as a dedicated beam. So a grossly simple cartoon where there's tons of work going into all of these pictures, uh,
would be this is that they're some dedicated proton beam, uh, that smashes on some target.
The target produces a bunch of mega mesons like pions and kaons.
And then we have muons going forward.
So the kind of things that we have in the world, we have proton beams that kind of scan from three to heavy all the way up to 400 GeV.
If you want to think about what we can do at certain. Um, and then the capture of all the muons come in these different ways, right.
As you think about things that are backscattered from very low momentum, we can have magnet focusing.
We can stop them, like I told us about yesterday.
And then what we really hope to do with the muon collider, see what we can do with an accelerated muon beam.
Um, so I do want to say that there's a bit of a caveat to accelerating beyond this, a completely novel technology.
We did see at Jay Park. There was evidence that we could do a little bit of acceleration.
Um, but, Kev, the TeV is a bit of a jump in, uh, magnitude of the energy scale.
So there's still plenty of progress to be made here. Uh, and then one more thing, again, going back to this point about logistics,
is that something that we know we will need for the full scale collider is to be doing this R&D for beams.
So given that this is something that we have to do for the full scale collider and will again likely be coming first, uh,
it's important to think about if there's any physics deliverables that we can have so
that we're not promising something that will only happen three decades in the future.
All right. So let's think about what we can do with a muon collider. Muon beam.
Um, there's a couple different options that I want to present.
So again, since the full scale collider is several decades out, even if all goes well, um,
that's the reason that we should be thinking about what we can do with those intermediate stages.
Um, this R&D is the highest priority, and we will produce muon beams exactly when in the timing, it will come online.
Uh, with respect to the full collider is not necessarily decided right now, but it is something that we could work into the plan.
Um, and then having these physics deliverables is what we want to be able to do.
Um, so just to give you, again, this idea of flexibility, right,
as this is a very different project and all the other future colliders that we discuss,
because there's so much more uncertainty with exactly how this is going to be implemented and with what timescale it's going to happen.
Um, so we shouldn't take that as, as a curse.
It should be a blessing instead, because then we have the opportunity, especially for theorists who usually just come in, uh,
when the data is already collected or in the stage of data collection, uh,
we have the opportunity to influence how these things should be realized to maximize our potential of discovery.
Um, and, you know, a lot of these things that I will be proposing,
especially for just the high energy components, could have some fraction of it realized at the LHC.
If we had thought about this 40 years ago, um, but we can't go and excavate a cavern to do things like beam dumps at the LHC,
even though that would be potentially a good use of protons. So if we do not start thinking about these things now, we might miss opportunities.
So at the time to think about these sort of auxiliary experiments really is now, um, if anything, uh, needs to be urgent on the theory world.
So I really don't like putting up timelines because it seems to invite all kinds of criticism.
Uh, and, you know, I just feel like we have to at this. I'm sorry, carry, but it's so far in the future.
Um, so I'm going to put some general guidelines, of course, punctuated by the most important things in physics.
Um, okay. So we'll think about what we can do now with beams that we already have and how we can think about data
collection and analysis that might be influential or guiding to future muon collider experiments.
We can think about what we do soon. Um, I don't want to put a strict timeline on that because of funding and technology and blah, blah, blah.
So we'll just say soon, which is 20, 30 years. Um, and then sometime in the future where, um, we have our full collider come online.
Um, so this is kind of the category of these different physics things that I will talk about.
It is a far from exhaustive list, but this is just sort of a ballpark, uh, discussion of what we could hope to do.
So let's start with what we do now. Um, great.
So what we're going to do literally today, um, or what we could do literally today,
we can't start an experiment today and hope that we can get data soon,
but we can't take experiments that already exist and recast their data in ways that give us new bounds on,
uh, previous models that could influence what things are interesting to look at at future colliders.
Um, so a lot of the, uh, physics resources that we have, especially in this country, are dedicated towards neutrino sources.
Um, so there's a lot of proton on target experiments happening that ultimately produce neutrinos.
But of course, wherever there are neutrinos, there are also muons. Uh, so we should see this is also an opportunity for muon physics.
Um, the example that I want to think about is mini to micro moon.
Um, but of course there's other sources, uh, and experiments in the world that have these same sort of infrastructure that we can hope to utilize.
Um, so we think about Miniboone and Microban. The original purpose was that they want to observe neutrino oscillations.
They have this really nice beamline, uh, at Fermilab in this big detector,
where they can hopefully see if there's any sort of activity coming from, uh, these scattering processes.
So one of the measurements that they are making for backgrounds is neutrinos scattering off of nucleons producing pions and pions go to two photons.
Uh, but there's a lot of really high quality data there.
And so it's possible that we could take this exact study that's already been done and think about what sort of BSM we can get out of that.
Uh, so that's what we did. You have to choose your model. Of course. That is the thing is, you can't exhaustively say if there's new physics or not.
It always has to come with the caveat of a model. So we'll take maybe the most gratuitous model that we can, which is just coupling to muons.
Um, and something that, of course, is near and dear to our hearts that muon colliders.
So if we just put a new scalar into our theory, make it lighter than the muon so it can only decay via a loop.
We can get the same process happening with either a Brimthrown like process where we irradiate the scalar, or we can have it in rare decays.
And more specifically, we can see this happening at the exact pipeline with which we are producing the neutrino beam,
and see our signature in the detector that was intended for other processes.
So this whole data set was collected, this whole infrastructure exists and we can just swoop in and utilize it.
Um, so because all of these things are already in place, we can just.
Come in and recast and then hopefully learn from that where there's new parameter space to explore,
um, so that we're more guided in future exploration. Okay.
Um, so ultimately, since we have this high flux of protons,
you get a slightly less high flux of nuance and you're able to do a little bit of progress.
So, uh, what we recast for miniboone A microbes are these blobs here, which don't necessarily extend too far into parameter space.
But we have improvements for speed and a similar experiment, um, in other projections.
So you might look at this and feel discouraged,
but I think you should feel encouraged because for basically free we were able to improve our reach in parameter space.
So if you're thinking about what can I do with auxiliary experiments right now,
find a data set with an interesting background and see how you can cast that into a new physics search.
All right. So let's talk about what we can do soon. Um, so there's a lot more uncertainties about what can happen here.
Uh, but let's think about sort of things that we can do with either neutrinos or low energy muon beams.
These sort of early acceleration stages. Um, so I'm not a neutrino theorist, but I'll try.
I'll try to do my best here. Um, one of the possible options we can have with very early R&D is this idea of new storm.
Um, which is a neutrino storage ring. Um, so this is something that can happen basically extremely early in the R&D stage of our muon collider.
Um, if we want to think about what we're doing for the muon cluster, is that, again, we'll have these protons coming in and hitting some target.
Um, some amounts of the muons will go off to the 60 cooling demonstrator, but there will also be other particles that are underutilized.
Right. So these would otherwise just be thrown out or absorbed.
So if there's something else that we can do with it that would be, um, not free, but definitely a much more cost effective way of doing some science.
Um, so yeah, the idea is that everything can happen modular up here for muon collider R&D,
and then you just have the infrastructure of building and maintaining this storage room.
Uh, so the idea is that again, you're capturing these muons with magnets.
You're not accelerating them. If you want to think about your classical physics definition of acceleration, sure,
you're accelerating them, but you're not putting them into a linear accelerator.
Um, and you're just circulating these beams, uh, on this large, oval like track.
Uh, so, as we all know, muons have this nice tendency that they want to decay.
Uh, and when you have this sort of geometry to your, uh, to your ring, is that a lot of the decays will happen.
Quite collimated.
Um, and from there we can put either a short baseline or long baseline detector to sort of look at these sort of neutrino scattering, uh, processes.
So the current status of what this would look like, given the proton beam of Fermilab,
we would expect that roughly we're getting three GeV muons to circulate and decay this, which would give us about one GeV on average, neutrinos.
But what's impressive about this setup and what's useful to, uh, neutrino experts,
is that this would be a very intense neutrino beam with the smallest uncertainty in the energy spread of these neutrinos yet.
So it would be a very tight beam, um, with a well understood energy.
And so with that, we can make much more precise measurements on neutrinos.
Um, so this is something that, again, probably wouldn't exist without sort of some infrastructure.
Uh, certainly without the already existing proton beam infrastructure,
but something that's less likely to happen without, um, the promise of another experiment going on, uh, synergistically.
So this is something that I think it's definitely worth considering. Uh, now I want to pivot back to the muons and what we can do with those.
Um, and so this is a very deep idea. Uh, what can you do with the beam?
Well, you can smash into another beam, or you can smash it into things at rest, right?
Um, so right now we'll think about the smashing into things at rest.
So let's assume that we've done a little bit more R&D at this point.
And we can accelerate these muons just a little bit.
Um, so I'm not sure how likely this is to be realized, but I suspect that we're not going to go all the way up to the TV immediately.
There will probably some Linux stagings and whatnot. Um, so let's assume that we're getting sort of GeV levels of acceleration here.
Um, so the question is then what can we do with the muon beam?
Either mu plus or minus with moderate energy and moderate intensity, since we're not going all the way.
Um, and so the very technical description that that'll get to this kind of physics is that we can probe kind of rare sort of light new physics,
uh, with these beam dumps of low energy. You want beams?
Um, so the geometry of this kind of experiment is much simpler than the standard, uh, collider experiment.
If you take your muon beam at whatever energy it is, um, you dump it into this target.
You hope to produce some new physics here, but of course, you'll also produce a lot of standard model stuff.
So you need some region of shielding where any Standard Model particle is wiped out or vetoed in some capacity.
Uh, but your new physics is so weakly coupled that it can live long enough to escape the shielding propagate into this fiducial decay region.
And if it decays somewhere in here, we can hopefully measure the visible decay products of this guy,
um, and potentially make a discovery of this new physics scenario.
Okay. So again, these are very economical experiments.
If you consider what kind of instrumentation they need with respect to the full scale collider, but they're not necessarily for free.
Um, what's interesting about the physics, though,
is that they are very complimentary to the full scale of the collider is because we're colliding things on a target.
We get energy cost right, is that we're no longer in the center of mass frame.
We have to, uh, boost in to the rest frame to see what the energy that we're probing is.
But we get this enhancement of Avogadro's number because we're doing an actual dense material.
Um, so it's much more moderate energy, but very high intensity and small couplings that we can hope to probe.
Um, so what we consider here, just to kind of do a sweep of the theory space and understand the lay of the land is we take some generic BSM
model where we have a propagating massive new particle that couples with the vertex here where it's muon,
muon and new particle. And that's effectively what's happening, um, in this little star here.
So let's explore a couple different models at various energies for this.
Beam them. Okay.
Um, so of course, the goal is that we want to understand the reach of how far into this parameter space we can go.
But this is not a question that exists without the details of the experiment itself, which of course, we do not yet have access to.
So again, we're already in the very strong tilde asterisk region of what kind of physics reach we have.
Um, so there are a couple choices that we can optimize in the experiments.
So optimizing the length of the experiment, the target size, the target material, and so on and so forth.
Um, these are things that will require much more dedication. And luckily for us, we have some amount of time before this comes online.
Um, and then of course, there just needs to be flexibility in terms of what the parameters of the experiment will be,
what the flux of neutrinos or muons. Sorry. Uh, with the flux of muons we can achieve would be the energy of these muons.
Um, so on and so forth. So none of these are concrete.
You should see these as a starting point with which we can build off of as a community.
Um, so let's sweep through some options.
So one model we have, um, again, if we think about sort of a generic new physics that's particularly beneficial for muons,
um, is if it again just couples to muons, well, let's say we got to ten GeV.
Um, so you can see the kind of parameter space where sweeping this is much smaller than this is the coupling to the new physics.
And this is the mass. The mass is not heavy. It's in the GeV range.
Uh, but the coupling is quite small. So these different options here are for the, uh, geometry.
And then the different contours correspond to how many muons we can have.
Ten to the 22 is absolutely bonkers, but ten to the 18 is pretty achievable.
Um, so we're starting to carve out some parameter space even with this low energy.
Uh, we can do things a little bit less contrived as a model. Go to lepton Felix.
So it has the same couplings as the Higgs to leptons.
Um, and see, what happens here is that if we go up to half the Higgs with which probably we won't be thinking about a Higgs with run.
But never say never. Um, again,
we can sort of start to push out into this unexplored GeV territory beyond what other beam dumps have done because of that muon specific couplings.
Um, and then one more model is this L mu minus L Tero. So this is a model that only couples to muons and thousands of neutrinos.
So it's quite unconstrained in terms of what we've been able to look at.
So this goes back to the fact that muons themselves um are novel.
So if you're doing low energy stuff, anything muon specific is likely to be improved even at low energy.
But of course, we also want to think about the high energy stuff. So let's just do a quick beam dump at high energy to um,
the motivation for this is that the luminosity of the collisions goes as the density of muons per bunch squared.
So at some point, you're just losing, uh,
so much luminosity in your collisions that might make more sense in terms of the physics to dump the beam rather than recirculate the beam.
I think I'm going to get some angry comments about that remark. Um, but we can think about this at the full scale on Collider.
Um, so if we consider those same models, um, you might have told how everyone's favorite dark photons.
So just couples like a photon, but heavy. Um, and that same though Felix scalar.
We just kind of blow all the existing balance out of the water because energy is new.
And that's sort of the punchline, um, for these high energy things.
Uh, and we can think about that is that these couplings, um,
we can push lower and higher couplings because the particle lifetime is extended, something that would only survive this far.
Some energy can survive this far at high energy. So it changes our parameter space.
Um, so that's sort of the story with high energy, right? Is high energy will always be new.
Muons are new at low energy. And then let me just say one more quick remark about neutrino physics.
Um, neutrino physics should really be our friends in this whole process.
Everything that we can do will certainly have a benefit for neutrino experiment as well.
So we should always be thinking about, um, the synergies between these fields too.
So again, let's go to that full. Um, you and clutter energy use.
Here's some work to appear by people in the audience. Nick, if you're here.
Yeah. Hi. Great neck. Great. Um, so they had an interesting idea where you take the muon clutter,
and then you angle it so that the street sections of the muon collider are pointing towards other, uh, neutrino experiments.
And then you have things go through the crust, through the mantle, um, and the core of the Earth.
And that can give you some different measurements about neutrinos as well.
And because the angular spread of the beam is proportional to one over gamma, um, we actually see a rather collimated beam,
depending on your definition of collimated, uh, and can explore with a lot of different experiments.
Um, so in their paper to appear soon, they present a lot of different studies that you can do, um, with precision measurements and things like that.
Um, of course, the angle that I'm excited about is how we can understand,
beyond the Standard Model phenomena with neutrino oscillations, for example, if there's a sterile neutrino.
Um, so here are some parameters and a general, uh, sterile neutrino fit.
And really, the most important thing that you can see is this is what we can do,
and this is what we could be able to do if we were to realize this kind of technology.
Um, so again, this is just mainly, uh, to encourage you to think in.
The spirit of how can we collaborate with other kinds of of physics out there?
Um, and if you have a beam, how can you use it in general?
This is a really clever way, uh, to sort of utilize one man's trash is another man's treasure.
All right. So let me wrap up here.
Um, again, the spirit of this talk is to think about what we can do now, what we can do soon, and what we can do in the future.
Um, and the things that will be novel about muon beams is that we have direct access to second generation,
uh, with very well understood energy spreads.
Um, and potentially high energy, depending on how close to the future you're willing to float your expectations.
Um, the progress of this will all come in stages. Um, so we should utilize them as they're available and not just put all of our physics
deliverables way off in the future so that we're giving back to the community,
as we're putting in, uh, this quite hefty but exciting R&D program.
Um, so I want to leave you with the with the call to action that we should always be thinking about synergies in neutrino measurements,
in precision measurements, in flavor violation, and more. There's so much out there.
And if we were to have this technology, it would be enriching not only for the community of colliders,
but for the whole physics community, um, in general. So thank you so much.
Thank you very much, Carrie. Very nice talk, and certainly an important topic to think about, about how we can stage physics as the R&D goes on.
I so will welcome questions. We have to two mic runners here and we'll start on the right side.
Thank you Carrie. Can you go to site 13 or 14 where you're showing the the dome for the first time?
Yeah. Oh 13 yeah. So, um, if you were to instrument the shielding.
Yes. Then suddenly this becomes muon nucleus, deep inelastic scattering.
Yes. Uh, at low key squared, which is of high interest to the Hadron Collider community,
the CDF community, because you're at the edges of the structure functions.
Um, has this been discussed and been explored by you guys in any capacity or others?
So I think I think that's a very interesting question. I don't know immediately how it could be realized.
Probably the experiment that's closest to what you're describing is of a 64 where they have no Jay lab.
This is like the entire daylight program. Uh, sure. Or Jay lab.
That's trivial. Yeah. Um, definitely.
Uh, I was just thinking in a 64, because they have that specific detector that I think would work well with this,
where they have the, um, the scintillation in between the target material.
Um, so, yeah, those would be good benchmarks to consider.
Uh, when you smash a five TeV muon into things, a lot of other crap comes out.
Uh, so it is outside of my, uh, intuition as to whether or not that would be a low energy.
Well, for what energy? Oh, you're right, that's true. This is low energy.
So. Yeah. That's. Yeah. Yeah.
You're right. Sorry. I got excited by, uh, the prospect of 20 of you.
Yeah. No, I suspect you're totally right. Yeah, that's a great idea.
Very good. Thank you. Do we have another question? Uh, could you go to your, uh, neutrinos, like, uh.
Oh, gosh. Yeah, it's an unfair question.
I know, but, uh, and naive tourist question.
How can you. I just think that's right. Action towards other experiments is the idea.
Probably. Yeah, probably. Probably gray or.
Nick, would you like to jump in about just that?
Let me ask a question. And whoever who wants to answer that is the idea that the a straight section is more sensible,
and you could tilt in towards different detectors to see different things.
Or is the idea that the design should be so that because we are having to for.
Yeah calculate it. Oh yeah.
So for the P1 situation you need an inclination angle of six degrees.
So I mean it's still a pretty steep angle but not so crazy for the price given came through
that you would have to consider like a beam dump that's actually oriented vertically downward.
Okay. But if you were to do a beam dump where you just so I mean, I think honestly,
the smartest way to dump a muon beam, muons don't like to interact very much.
So you would need something like a kilometer of tungsten if you wanted to fully stop it.
So for dumping it, probably we're dumping it into the ground at some point.
So you might need a pretty strong magnet to kick the beam into that direction.
But I do think that, you know, in the same spirit of the straight sections, we could just orient how we.
Yeah, yeah. I mean, where else besides the core of the Earth are we going to put a five TeV?
So yeah, I think I think just sort of like a kicker would be the right solution and not doing the whole orientation of the matter.
Okay, okay okay, okay. We can we can take one more question.
But as we got our next speaker to come down, honestly, we can set you up, uh, while we're taking the last questions that we've set up.
Okay. So we're taking this last question. I don't know.
Yeah. Uh, you mentioned, uh, an A64.
Yeah. So we are working actually, we are collaborating with, uh, at least a group of people from IMC with uh, an A64,
MMU, and there is the possibility actually to, um, let's say, uh, somehow change the muon beam energy.
So, uh, unfortunately, this pediment is very small.
The collaboration is very small, but there are a lot of things that can be done that can be studied there.
Yeah. Yeah, that's that's great. So Donatella mentioned that there's progress happening within a 64.
Um, they have a very low intensity muon beam.
And then like the GeV, two tens, hundreds of 1200s, 160 GV.
Um, so it's a low intensity beam, but still any any ways that we can study muon bunching or whatnot.
Excellent. Yeah. And actually, we can try to work with, uh, with a CERN muon, uh, uh, facility.
They are willing to, uh, actually, uh, improve the muon beam.
So, uh, the problem is them in power there, but. Okay.
Well, thank you all very much. Thank you for a great. Can people hear me?
Awesome. Okay. So we put this on before we get started.
All right. Uh, yeah. Thanks a lot for an invitation. It's a pleasure to be here and talk to you about, uh.
The task was quite, uh, you know, uh, a pretty good challenge to put everything that we're doing together in what we call blue sky.
Let's call it the new things. Um, things that are may not be dead in the experiment.
Uh, so I try to do my best. Uh, and there is a lot of material, so I'll move fast.
Uh, there is a lot of talks that I highlight, uh, through my talk in the parallels.
So there is more technical stuff. Uh, I encourage everyone to go to the parallels.
I'll try to highlight all the ones I know, but, uh. Um, thanks.
Uh, before I forget, uh, to everyone that helped me prepare this slide.
I go to slide from many people. So thanks a lot for that. You all know who gave me a slide, so thanks a lot.
Uh, okay. So let me try to set the stage.
Uh, so, uh, before we go to the blue sky, we need to have a firm, uh, you know, footing on what we know now and what we're doing.
So, you know, the closest that we we know what could be similar or most similar to, uh,
know machine in the future under detectors, uh, with all the difference that we already know, uh, that they have.
It's the the Large Hadron Collider detectors, uh, in there, we're actually going, uh, into the regime and where we are, uh, is there like a.
Yeah. So there is, uh, we're going into what we call for the detection.
So that means measuring very precisely the time and the position of, uh, charged particles.
And once you have that, you can go into the next step, which is adding the energy for color emitters.
So all of that is very complex. You have a lot of information now per sensor.
So you need to do a lot of work to make your uh now detector to be five dimension, uh, say capable.
So and with uh, that what I wanted to get out is he is a, uh, blue sky R&D on sensors A6.
So, uh, basically electronics, uh, on the front end, uh, as early adoption as possible of emerging technologies that we are not experts on,
but we should become experts will be key to achieve this, uh, goal in the future for,
uh, you know, any machine that we have, especially the muon, uh, Collider.
Okay, so, as I said, I wanted to set some kind of ground where we are.
So to set the stage so people know, you know, what we know how to do now and where we want to possibly go.
So this is a picture of, uh, what we call the, uh, maybe timing detector at CMS is the end cap region and which uses,
uh, silicone detectors to detect, uh, charged particles.
And this is a map, uh, of, uh, entire sensor module.
And this blue color is the time resolution. Uh, and it's pretty striking that we can.
And if you read all of the numbers in here, we get a resolution, uh, of about, uh, 30 to 40 picoseconds.
Very homogeneous across the whole sensor, including the readout chip.
There is a dedicated talk from, uh, Mutasa here.
Uh, and probably Archer is going to cover this, too.
So there's a lot of details in the parallel talk, but, uh, the name of the game here is this will be the first large area precision timing detector.
And we're doing quite well on understanding, uh, how to make a system level, uh,
say detector now, very homogeneous and at the time performance that we need.
So that's very good news. Uh, that's just one of them.
Uh, then we're actually the large scale production.
Uh, a lot of it is going to happen at Fermilab, various other production centers across the US.
Uh, but we're getting ready things that are being prepared and the production will be imminent will start early next year.
So everything it's going, uh, according to plan.
And we know how to do this, and we expect this, uh, detector to be installed for the high luminosity LHC.
So that's that's really great news. So timing and four dimensional.
And if you extrapolate that to calorimeter is possibly five dimensional in the case of in this case solid
state detectors is another way to do five dimensional colorimetric uh with dual readout that I mentioned too.
But in this case we're making progress towards that.
Uh, there's one, uh, thing that you may have noticed here, uh, if you pay attention, but it was pretty fast.
So the pixels are pretty large, uh, as you see here.
And if you actually were to zoom in in between them, there will be a gap there.
It will be an inefficiency gap between them. And that's the way the look are fabricated.
These are, uh, low gain avalanche detectors.
Uh, so if you trust my work for it or go to art stock or one of the other timing dedicated talks, you will learn why that is the case.
Uh, so there is a gap in between two channels, neighboring channels.
And that's what kind of prompted the, uh, say now blue Sky R&D, which is currently being developed now for what we call ACO, get.
So the previous one where DC couple where we terminate some uh, some of the electrodes to ground.
Now we know how to we put pads in here to read.
Each channel differently and what you can see in the plot in the right.
And now instead of have if I church Portugal goes through you now get uh, the charge from many uh, neighboring channels, typically 2 or 3.
And that avoids the problem of the dead space between channels.
So you always get 100% feel factor. So we've solved the problem, um, by the boss.
Indeed. The electrodes at, uh, different sizes. We can also now make pixels smaller.
So there is a question of power dissipation, so on and so forth.
But now we've solved that problem. We know how to do that 100% feel factor and possibly smaller pixels or uh, strips.
Uh, so there is a lot of R&D towards that. These are sensors now have recorded with the AC technology and uh, different this is strips,
these are pixels and they all share the characteristics that are 100% field factor.
And they share signals when a particle goes in between the two channels.
Uh, this is a performance. So you see here, uh, as you go across, you get signals from all the channels.
And depending on your algorithm, you can have 100% efficiency if you just require one signal in any of the sensors,
and then you start requiring more stuff, you start to see the shape of each channel individually.
Uh, so that's kind of detail level in here. You see the money plot where you see that on red.
This is the time resolution. We achieve the same performance as VCO gets to 35 picoseconds roughly.
And here you see, uh, now because you can combine the signals now, not for free, but by design you get, uh, the position resolution.
So you can get position resolution in green of about, uh, ten, uh, microns.
There is some feature here as you go closer to, you know, the boundaries.
There is a it's a feature there. But this can be improved and more R&D can be done towards getting to, you know, lower and lower resolutions.
Uh, us uh, you can also improve the position resolution.
You can also improve the time resolution. Uh, we know how to do that. So in here you can see as we this bias voltage.
But the in here you need to focus on the colors.
If you make thinner and thinner sensors what happens is that the fluctuations uh intrinsic to the sensor,
it start to get smaller, your signal gets reduced. So there is a kind of trade off factor.
But at the end of the day, if you go for thinner sensors in black, about 20, uh, micron thick,
you get uh, ten resolution of 20 picoseconds, which is much better, uh, than the 35.
It may not look at it, but it's very challenging to get to this levels. Uh, so we are doing well.
We know how to do this. And there is an optimization to be made, but it's possible for this sensor to achieve time resolutions of 20 picoseconds.
Okay. We are not, uh, a good thing about blue Sky or indeed is that you don't want to be kind of cornered into one possible technological solution.
Uh, so. Or material in this case. So this one was just normal silicon.
It's another type of technology that has some advantages, uh, or possible advantages that we looked at,
uh, which is silicon carbide, uh, in this case a bit different.
It's the same kind of concept for another. But there is, uh, there is a gain layer and there is an avalanche.
But in this case, the colors are not, the electrons are the holes.
Uh, and the material itself has some properties which can possibly be run at higher temperatures.
So that's good for cooling purposes in, uh, you know, a large scale machine and, uh, possibly also radiation heart.
So this is just the way you make them.
Uh, in this case, there is some, uh, development at LBL and where they have done and other institutions as well,
uh, where they've done a DC version of the yoga and AC in this new material.
Uh, this is uh, TCD, which is a key word for, uh, fancy word for, you know,
a scanning laser that can take measurements and, uh, and, and get your sensors characterize this is a picture of dcgan.
This is the amplitude, uh, very uniform using this new process.
So it's never been done in this type of material before.
And this is the ACO get. And they also achieve in this case with lasers.
So there is still to be a thing measured with uh charged particles.
Uh, but if you do with the laser you, you get the time resolution very close or comparable to normal.
L gets uh, at about, you know, similar to a MIP type particle.
So that's very good news and also gets a time, uh, position resolution of about, uh, six microns.
So all the benefits of L gets come by design code.
It's similar with design, but now we have another type of material, silicon carbide, that can achieve this.
Uh, okay. So now we know the sensor can do it, as I said.
And we don't only need to focus on the sensor, we need to also do the readout.
Uh, that's very important, very challenging, as you will learn in some of the, uh, parallel talks.
So we're, uh, and there is already, uh, readout chips at science read time.
Uh, but in this case, for example, is an ACL gap.
I just talked about it, uh, and in this case we've developed a new type of A6.
So typically what you do in an essay, you look at the leading edge of a pulse and you time stamp it and you say,
okay, this when it arrived, that works. Well, uh, but you see pulses change it.
So there is a time lag correction effect. It means that the timing is moving as the amplitude of the pulses change.
Uh, one way to correct that. Uh, that has been known, which is, uh, constant friction discriminator.
Uh, basically, you take the a constant fraction of the amplitude, the that resolve that problem in principle.
But it's really hard to implement that in electronics, more so in, uh, you know, microelectronics on a chip.
So to our knowledge, this is the first time that, uh, uh, this has been developed.
So there is, uh, constant friction discriminator that promises to remove the time.
Well, correction effect, uh, that has been tested in ACL, gets uh, is produced, uh, and uh, currently tested.
So the latest iteration of that was just given back to us on June, uh, which is called f cfd b 1.1.
There's several iterations to, you know, build this up. Uh, it was already tested.
Uh, we charged particles and charged injection, uh, uh, dataset with five GB electrons.
That's the set up over there. Uh, and then if you look at the time resolution with particles, you with the chip.
So this is not only the sensor. So everything together.
So this means that the the chip itself is not contributing a lot to the sensor because the sensor itself as I showed you, is about 35 picoseconds.
And this is confirmed by the plot here that tells you the when you have just the charging direction, the electronics,
you get a time resolution of ten picosecond, which is negligible when you are in in quadrature with the sensor itself.
So we are doing quite well. The A6 is working well and you don't have to do anything, anything.
Basically this I think what I wrote here is that you want to change the paradigm in the architecture to low power,
and you don't have to do any corrections. Typically what you will do with the current sensor, you have to look at the amplitude, correct that,
otherwise your time resolution will be 60 picoseconds instead of the 30 that you can get from the sensor if you don't apply the time.
Well. Correction okay. So we're making progress also on R&D for the chips.
Uh, and again so you now have the, the the analog part.
You also need to work on the time to digital. There is uh, development is say got this slide from time on and lvl.
So it is progress to try to uh go to smaller. No process 28 nanometer.
This is kind of new for particle physics community. So we're getting to newer stuff and they're optimizing this chip for towards for the pixels.
So the size and also the the time readout.
So that's made a lot of progress towards high radiation environments from from this group.
So we're also working on the last step which is time to digital conversion.
And another way that you can think of is like now you have my sensor.
I can have it in one process, let's say 65 nanometer process, and I have my signal in 28 nanometer.
So what do I do? How do I put them together? And so on and so forth.
So typically what we do is we, we flip, uh, the sensor and then we do bump.
One thing is for the experts, it is kind of difficult to yield.
It's hard. Uh, it's kind of annoying, uh, but it's, uh, and then we can also do it at the basically at the day level, very small.
And what the industry does, they can do it. These are the wafer level at this big kind of chip level.
And that's much, much more cost efficient. And that's what industry is going.
So we should follow them. Uh, so thing Phil, the deposition over here is one of the techniques.
So you have your now the blue is the readout chip, the part that takes a lot of cycles and developments.
We typically understand sensors relatively well. So the idea will be to do uh not so thin.
Uh, it's typically thin is like, you know, can be orders of hundreds of nanometers.
In this case, it's microns, but still call it thin film.
So you can deposit data on on the readout chip. And that will be your sensitive element.
So there is, uh, the best of both worlds because you can, uh, optimize independent the readout chip and,
uh, the sensors and then put them all together at the wafer level.
So that's kind of unique going into it, like this big mass production and following the industry standard.
Uh, another way to do that, actually,
it's integrated directly the chip and the sensor into one thing without another process that's called, uh, what's, uh, map sensor.
So the maps have, uh, integrated the electronics.
It's a seamless process. It has everything integrated together in the same, uh, chip, uh, or sensor.
It will say whichever way you want to call it is the same. The the electronics and the sensor are together.
And in this case, uh, there is a few efforts, uh, around the world is from an iPhone something, uh, um, from Fermilab.
We collaborate with them very closely.
And here you can see in this plot that, uh, if you put three of these planes together with charged particles, uh, you start scanning the threshold.
Would you run this, uh, so not very important, the x axis, but you can see that they get a resolution of about five microns.
So that's kind of the regime in which we want to go. The down resolution needs to be improved.
Uh, and that's something to be worked on.
But at least the position and the integration of sensor and uh, A6, let's say it's all done in these sensors.
As I mentioned,
there's another effort from slack in which they're trying to do something very similar now in different process with a different company.
So we will see the results of this new effort uh, soon, which we expect to be comparable.
And, you know, typically it's very for all the other get results. To show before.
There is a large number of groups, and the interaction between these groups and the different results have pushed the effort forward much faster.
So it's really good to see that in maps also, which is a new technology.
Awesome. Uh, we are also doing this and various groups are interested, so we expect this to move much faster in the future.
And we are already getting the position resolution, you know, under control.
And we will need to do some more work on the timing part. Uh, and this again, as I said, there are three.
There is another one, which I think it is, I believe maybe it's like the first or, you know,
more advanced for in this case it's a that's been at CERN the previous one with the Fermilab.
Uh, I think this has more planes, the six planes.
But again, the position resolution is very comparable about, uh, five micron, uh, in this test of the data, uh uh uh, CERN.
Uh, so, so that's really great for maps.
So we're moving towards, you know, integration and how we can scale up, uh, the readout chip, um, the, the sensor together.
And, uh, this is, say, the newest thing that we're working on, this is like, at least for us, very blue sky.
Uh, so the way that industry does it actually, uh, very similar, maybe.
Or another way to do this thin film and maps.
So, uh, we've done this is what we do, for example, for the CMS, uh, timing detector, the rock.
And uh, look at this is what I just described, maps.
And this is thin films, which is this idea of another way to do it at the wafer level is actually yet another way,
which is where industry is going and which is cool. It's 3D integration.
So this is a project that we're doing together.
Uh, Fermilab slag, uh, Livermore, in which, uh, this is how actually, for example, the cameras, uh, or, you know, the high speed cameras are done.
You have here your, uh, say camera sensor, your well, we will call sensor.
It's probably a, uh, you know, uh, a camera in this case, you have the memory in the second level, uh, and the high speed signal processing.
So the electronics and then you have also another more processing engine for the image.
So all of that is put together. All of this chips may have been processed in different notes.
So they could be done differently. And then you join them at the wafer level.
So this is what's called 3D integration. And uh, we haven't uh, at least in the HP community, we haven't have results on this uh, yet until just now.
So first was to can we do this at the wafer level.
So typically we do smaller wafers and industry uses 12 inch wafer.
So we're basically exploring do our census work in this new process.
Can we go to the full 12 inch wafers. So we submitted this uh different sensors in this case ACL get uh, different,
uh, you know, configurations and trying to go to small pixels and readout that.
So we're making sensors first in this new node in this new process to try to, you know, catch up with the industry standard.
And at the same time, we're also producing now a different node, 28 nanometer,
which is advanced node for for us, uh, now a full HD readout with a leading edge.
So first you know, easier things. So we do leading edge uh time stamping plus the PDC.
So this we already have uh, a new results.
I encourage you to go to Archer Stock. He will describe the new results on this.
So there's a ready results on the time resolution of this new A6 in this 28 nanometer chip, uh, with the TDC.
And there is another submission, uh, actually in the pipeline to, to keep moving this along.
So things are going well, uh, before I move into more exotic stuff.
Uh, I also, uh, I think Grace, who is here, uh, primarily displayed on Colorimeter.
There's also blue sky R&D to not go five dimensional.
We'd say solid state detectors, but also, uh, you know, more traditional calorimetry with, uh, scintillation light.
But there is also a lot of work to be done there in trying to get the two components of the light,
the Cherenkov and the, uh, you know, normal scintillation as well as different materials to make this cost effective.
So there is, uh, two big thrusts trying to do this cost effective with, uh,
glass development towards a homogeneous calorimeter, because that has some advantages over, you know, sampling color emitters.
As we know. I don't want to get to the details. I encourage you again, go into Grace's talk for that.
Uh, but there is new stuff. And in this case, you can see here in the edge of this plot, you can see there's Cherenkov etch,
which is typically much faster, and then the normal scintillation light.
And in this case you can see very nice signals for MIPs, which I believe suggest that you can do precision calorimetry.
We did. And feel free to correct me, Grace, if I say something correctly.
And then there is other thrust in which you can, uh, now do the dual readout.
So again, separate the the shrink of light and the scintillation light as much as possible to make use of that.
That will give you also good timing resolution and uh, energy resolution as well.
So. Uh, then the idea in this case is try to do, uh, this with plastics,
insulators and in some cases using emerging technologies like quantum dots to, you know, put this and, uh, you can separate the scintillation.
And, uh, in this case, you, you red shift the scintillation spectrum and you also delay in time.
So there is different ways to separate the the two components.
And, uh, Grace will discuss that in her talk, I'm sure, uh, and this is kind of the newer stuff.
So I said emerging technologies. I mentioned even quantum in there.
I will go back to that. Uh, and the case quantum dots, uh, readout chips and perfect readout chips, um, uh, sensors,
uh, and calorimetry, uh, with readout, uh, dual readout, uh, you know, techniques.
Uh, but, uh, can we do something with front end machine learning?
How is that all playing together? So in this case, there is different ways to do it.
Uh, we are kind of used to CPUs or currently is like our footing in the ground now without the blue sky, uh, CPUs, GPUs and this more blue sky,
I believe if you're going in this arrow and we've done it with FPGAs, uh, you know, typically the, uh,
the high level trigger, uh, in CMS and Atlas, and now we're trying to see if we can do it with A6.
So, uh, this is just a picture to illustrate the problem.
You. And this is an upgrade of CMS, um, from CMS.
I'm a bit biased, but it also makes a good case in this case are about 6 million, uh, readout channels.
Uh, it's a 60 time increase in, uh, from the LHC calorimeter.
So, and this kind of a picture that you get. So you have a lot of information.
That's not what we actually see at the end of the day, because we need to reduce that, uh, basically because of bandwidth constraints.
Can we do better? Can we do something now very close to the detector, which is typically an network in which we can recover this information and do
something smarter to be able to see this picture and have all the information,
uh, you know, more readily available to us. So, uh, the same idea here.
This is some synergies for maps and is a slide that I borrowed from Catarina, in which you can, uh, maps this different sensor.
But, uh, the same idea is can you make this very pixelated and then go to digital?
So you basically read every single particle in the detector, uh, that's, you know, going bananas.
And this idea of, you know, 5G tracking and recording everything.
But then when you have to do something at the electronics level to be able to, uh, make this work.
So there is already effort on this and, well, it's called, uh, AI on chip.
So one example is smart chips. In this case, the idea is to reduce the data, uh, or compress the data to be able to, uh, you know, this the sensor,
this is the basic and there is some compression to be able to reduce the data volume, uh, in a smart way.
So there is an encoder, uh, put in Basic and this has not been done before.
Uh, so you put some smartness in the A6 and you just want to make sure that it does what you told it to do.
And that's hard for A6 because you have to reconfigure these things. And typically A6 don't want to be reconfigured.
You put it there and there's just few parameters. So it's kind of challenging to do that.
Uh, in this particular case, uh, you can use the smart data reduction at the edge using the pole shapes.
Uh, the drift times. Uh, as you can see here, there is some kind of, uh, drift times, and you want to reduce low stuff that you don't care.
And you can distinguish that from high speed. Start by looking at these variables.
You can encode that in the in the chip. And then try to see if you can reduce that data and reduce it.
Uh, actually there's a lot of progress on the actual chip implementation.
If you trust, uh, this plot is telling you that, uh, basically they have made this work and they have the A6 under control.
So we're going towards that.
And there is actually, you know, chips being developed with this capability so far, nothing to be put in real experiments, but we have the capability.
And uh, then now, as I mentioned before, ACL gates also have this technology, uh, which you can share the signal.
So it's complex. So you can try to put that to some kind of machine learning algorithm.
Can you do better than, you know, what you would do naively. And there is this paper.
This has not been done in a chip. It's just the proof of principle.
But they can see that they have a huge expected performance gain, about a factor of ten.
If you do the smart just algorithm. And assuming that you can put this in an ethic,
but you can see the potential where we we are getting with the standard algorithm 130 microns, the easiest one is 65.
Uh, and then uh, you can actually get to ten times better on this.
Can I get one more minute? Uh, go quickly.
Uh, and uh, as I mentioned, I wanted to go back to really emerging technologies, which is, uh, one example, and I'm involved on this one.
So you can ask me hard questions on this one. So it's trying to use quantum technology.
In this case we're using superconducting nanowire detectors.
What this does very quickly is that if a typically if a photon came through it will, uh, impinging here, that will create a resistance very quickly.
And because it's a nonlinear process, the resistance, then this it starts to grow.
It quenches completely. But if you're a smart, you just put a 50 on Terminator Terminator here and you can get a pose because the
current now it's a huge increase in resistance and you get a pulse out very quickly.
So the question is this has been done for quantum information science experiments and is very precise and very small.
Uh, say pitch. So you could think maybe you can do a very good time resolution because the process is very fast and naive.
Uh, naturally it comes in, you know, nano kind of pattern.
So maybe you can do submicron trackers. That was the idea.
So we did this, uh, we put it is a cryostat put in if you're familiar with it.
As we facilitated this crazy.
We put a cryostat in there for the first time, we demonstrated how charged particles interact with this superconducting nanowire photon, uh, detector.
We didn't know if it's going to work as charged particles, so maybe it work or not.
We have some ideas. Uh, it was an educated guess, and it went really well.
Uh, so now we changed the name to instead of photon particle is the team.
Uh, that made it happen. And what we actually see is. Yeah, we do see charged particles.
Uh, the efficiency, if you pay attention, kind of plateaus at 60%.
So it's still not 100%. But for being the first time, I call this a big success.
So we're doing really well. There's actually a test beam ongoing, uh, next week in which we have an idea and try to improve this efficiency to 100%.
So that's all I wanted to say. And then, uh, now we need if we want to go with this, you need now cryogenic A6 to make this work.
So that will be really blue sky R&D for the future.
Uh, I'll just skip this one, but we're working on cryogenic, uh, tDCS as well, so we have a whole plan.
Uh, but I wanted to say that advanced R&D detector calls for extraordinary talent and long term commitment.
So if you're interested, uh, I mean, I'm not the only one working on all of these things,
but I'm sure my colleagues will agree that we need more people. So feel free to contact me if you want to get involved.
We need you. Thank you. Thank you.
We can take just a couple of questions, please. I, um, thanks for the the really nice talk.
It's a lot of fun to hear about the latest in detector R&D.
So about these quantum sensors and the idea of putting them into the particle detectors like the last ones.
You. Me? Yes. Yeah. So I mean, this seems like a really great tool for a different application.
Yeah. I mean how what is the benefit of one picosecond timing if you're introducing a cryogenic
system into your tracker and all of the material that that introduces the scattering,
the loss in overall efficiency, right. Yeah.
Your efficiency is just measured with the few particles that make it through the cryogenic system without crazy scattering.
Right? Like, it must have introduced insane scattering in the test beam.
Uh, in this particular case, you actually, if you work out the details.
Yeah, that's a good point. When you do the calculation in this particular cryostat, uh,
because of the way these sensors are not the most difficult to operate in in terms of cryogenic, uh, requirement.
It's a very thin aluminum, uh, basically cryostat.
So it actually doesn't do a lot, but it's a fair point. And if you want to do a large scale system, then you have to do it.
That actually what can what it turns out if you go back to this.
So there is uh, which I didn't have time to go over, but uh, there is another way to so this runs a two Kelvin.
So it's kind of challenging, but there is a lot of R&D. So we're maybe thinking about the future and it may not work at the end of the day.
But there is way to now make the critical temperature of this superconductor go to 20 Kelvin.
So that will be a game changer, in which case all the requirements for cryogenics will be significantly reduced.
It's still very hard, but we might get you know, there's a big push from industry to build large cryogenic plants.
So it's 40 years down the road, so I wouldn't discard it. But, uh, I agree that's, you know, we have better technology.
Yeah. I mean, if you can use it for CO2 or, you know. Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So this might be like, for example, a very small area,
something a specific luminosity measurements, uh, something that needs to be very radiation hard.
Uh, this could be, for example, a technology that we should not forget.
So we're already doing it in the labs because, you know, there's other reasons why we're doing it.
So we should keep that in mind. So that's what I decided to include it in the talk.
But I'm not suggesting this should be the primary. That's why it comes last.
Yeah. So yeah. We're good. Thank you. We can take one more question.
And while we're doing that, I'll ask the next speaker to please come down and, uh, we'll set up for the next talk as we're taking the next question.
All right. Thank you, Christopher, for this talk. I was about to ask a very similar question than than Kerry did, but I have a question as well.
So the only follow up to what Kerry said, I think it would be extremely helpful.
And this is something great even for just some undergrad project and so on.
Do some back on the envelope calculations about like so we know safety measurement.
That's a great example. Yeah. So or why the tracker yes or no.
What is the amount that you introduce.
These are simple things but they will be great additions to the set of as introduction um to why in the future this blue sky can can evolve in.
Yeah. So we can definitely do that in this case multiple probably I don't they are very thin detectors.
So it's actually less scattering that you will get from actually silicon detectors.
So because they're like nanometer uh thickness. Otherwise the critical temperature gets too high.
So you kind of make them thicker. So that part is worked out for the, I guess the aluminum, uh, barrier for the cryostat.
Yeah. Yeah. So that part is like typically that's how cryostat to build. But you can make it smaller and try to reduce that.
But I agree with you. My my my my backup question is that is is back to the um, constant fraction discrimination is one.
So this is a very interesting one. One thing we've seen sort of um, thinking about the detector and so on,
is that there is a lot of ideas about logic that we need to put in the chip, and at some point you run out of space.
Uh huh. Right. And so the question is like how we balance what how we use space.
So, uh, in terms of concept for discriminator,
is that something that's sort of you can think you've seen can can be made small enough that indeed can be used on a pixel by pixel basis.
Yeah, yeah. So we, I think, uh, what we're seeing is that you can if, if, if you design it in the right way,
we're for example, seeing lower low power consumption on various small pitches.
So I think it's quite doable.
And especially as you know, the note, uh, or, you know, the industry is pushing the note pitch to smaller and smaller sizes.
So what we're seeing that it's actually less challenging than what we expected or we're getting good results,
you know, in terms of power consumption and how small we can make it.
So it's looking great on that front. Yeah. That's if you get.
And we'll welcome our next speaker of Microsoft Art from.
You'll give us a deep dive on timing detection. Thank you. Can you hear me?
Hear me in the back. Oh, good. Okay. Yes, I think, uh, no dark mode.
Uh, but we're going to attempt to go, uh, into a deep dive into timing.
This is quite a challenging brief. Again, for 25 minute talk.
So much like Christian talk, there's a there's a lot of content that I'm going to try and cover.
Uh, but the context that we've got from Simona is really nice talk yesterday in Christian's talk,
I think make my job a little bit easier, but, um, let's dive in.
Oh, are all my titles not rendered? Uh, that's a that's a bit of an issue.
I'm not sure I work. Yeah.
Give me a. Chance.
See if I can fix it, you know. You can just go to.
Yes. Is that way. So just go to ten year old.com.
You guys want to see 123456. Did you guys. So this was.
Can you get us for real time on your own account and then put an ATM?
I said. Six eight.
I'm here. Oh, does that work?
Let's see if it works. Yep. That's it.
There we go. This time the titles. Okay.
All right. All right. Let's begin with the deep dive.
Um, the context for why we need timing detectors, I think was was describing this stuff really well yesterday.
So I won't go over the details of that again. But basically, it's the beam induced background and the hit occupancies that come from it.
Uh, that are the existential reason why we need timing detectors at these, uh, collider experiments.
Um, these are largely out of time with the muon interactions that we care about.
So a sufficiently tight time cut around those interactions should take care of most of this bump and get us back down to the older,
single percent level occupancies that we really need for these detectors that we have actually be able to do tracking important thing in them.
Um, here's a here's a Maya concept just to put some, uh, projected numbers of what these, uh, precisions need to look like in these detectors.
Um, you can see in the innermost layer, I should I should mention here, by the way,
that the Bab has a harder time penetrating as we get deeper into the detector.
Um, and so the most stringent requirements are going to be, uh, on the innermost layer.
So the vertex detector in this Maya concept here, if I believe the Maya music concept, both share, uh,
these parameters, you need really high spatial granularity and temporal granularity to keep that occupancy effective.
Occupancy, I should say down to about single percent level.
So 25 micron pixel pitch and three picosecond timing resolution, which is quite a tall order given where we are now.
And you kind of got a sense of that from Christine's talk. Um, we are at one millimeter pictures at the moment.
This is we have quite a way to go to get here.
But with that, a little bit of context out of the way, um, let me go into the basics of how timing detectors work.
So I'm using here as my baseline, the very standard hybrid detector model, which, uh, you also saw in Christine slides.
This is now pretty mature over several decades in where we have a sensor and an Asec, a fabricated in a,
in a process that's best suited for each of those that are then electrically connected by means of a,
of a big, um, shoulder bump or an Indian bump that that actually helps us hand off the signal from the sensor to the chip.
That's how that scheme tends to work. But within the context of a timing detector,
there are a couple of really important features that we need from the signal that is delivered, uh, to our research.
The first one is a relatively quick signal.
So we need the right type to be very fast, since we usually look at the leading edge of the signal to find when this, uh, particle arrived.
And we would like the amplitude of this to be high.
Uh, for our basically for the readout chip to be able to have an easier time digitizing the signal.
So the sensor needs to be reasonably high. Those are the two main features we need.
Um, from this little cartoon.
I should say I have links to I've pulled a lot of material, um, from recent talks, and this is supposed to be a bit of a crash course introduction.
I've tried to take as much material from recent press and conferences as I could,
and I highly encourage you to follow these links if you're interested in any particular topic,
because there'll be a lot more detailed in the link tone. Um, so here this cartoon for an end on P diode is a simple conventional diode.
Here you can maybe already get intuition for why a thinner detector would give you a quicker rise time.
This is also accuracy just hinted in this earlier. Uh, or your slides.
You just have an easier time connecting the charge. The thinner the sensor is, the quicker it will come to you.
So that solves one problem. But you still have the issue of your signal to noise ratio.
This is where low gain avalanche diodes step into the picture.
Um, but it's a very simple concept. Now, uh, I think more than a decade into its development.
So it's still relatively recent in the grand scheme of pixel detectors, but still sort of a young technology.
Simple idea. Just by adding a little gain layer before the collecting electro for the electrons,
you introduce a region where the field is so high that you get really dramatic charge amplification,
so you can get away with having a really thin pixel that gets you your really fast race time, and you it.
By using this charge amplification, you also end up getting a pretty decent Snr, so you get the best of both worlds.
This is why, um, the L got kind of why I've cheekily put this is the standard.
Even though this is the first generation thing, we're making this up.
There is no standard here, but I think this is a pretty decent standard timing detector, uh, concept to pursue.
Um, the, the detailed accuracy I mentioned in a slide about the field being contained within a single pixel.
We'll expand about an a bit here, because it's relevant to ensure that the field and this pixel are fairly uniform, uh, which makes sure that your,
your charges drift pretty quickly and that all the charges collected by your electrode,
you have to make sure that the field is entirely contained within each pixel.
This forces you to have some sort of an engineered solution to contain the field, uh, for each pixel within itself.
Um, that's what leads into that area between the pixels. Now, in the current generation of the detectors, we have like one millimeter pixels.
Again, this that area is not, um, a significant, uh, fill factor impact.
However, if you wanted to then take this geometry and shrink it down to 25 microns, this would not work.
This is obviously not going to work. Um, so we'll have to come up with something else, and I'll, I'll touch upon this at the end.
You already saw some possible solutions in person talk, but that's basically how elegant that work.
Now going to the second second half of how the fundamental detector works.
You have you have an asset that takes the signal that's been handed off from the sensor and does a few critical things.
Most implemented Asics will have these fundamental components, uh, different implementations of those components,
possibly implemented in different nodes with different power requirements. But the scheme is usually the same.
You will have some sort of an amplifier that takes a really, uh, feeble current,
and it will turn it into a bit more of a sizable voltage signal that you can then use to discriminate,
or maybe get a sense of when your signal arrived,
how long it stayed above whatever threshold you specified, which you then go ahead and digitize in your time to digital converter,
uh, which will tell you usually two numbers, uh, in digital format when the signal arrives.
And how long is it about this threshold? That's usually all you need to be able to extract.
Um, the processing timing information for particles that crosses detectors.
So those are the two pieces that go into timing detectors.
With those two in mind, I think we can get a pretty reasonable sense of what sets the limit on the resolution of the two factors,
which is ultimately most relevant to these, um, uh, beyond collider detector concept parameters you can express.
I mean, this is sort of a this isn't necessarily a binding equation.
This is one way of expressing this as different ways of writing this down. But I think this is useful for our purposes here.
There's the main contributions from the sensor will come from how uniform the signal
pulse coming out of the sensor looks like both in its shape and its amplitude.
And you can probably guess again, the thinner your sensor is, the more uniform it will be,
because there's essentially less distance for the charged particle to interact with your detector.
So there's less variation in the charges it can create.
And there's also less difference in the time that those charges will take to diffuse up to the collecting electrode.
It's always convenient to have a thinner sensor. And here in this I think I believe now they also pointed out to these results,
these are very recent results I showed that you have as you get thinner,
the so-called Landau term, this term that encapsulates the variation in the shape and the amplitude does get better as you get thinner.
And as I mentioned earlier, thinner is better for rise time.
And indeed, as you get better, the rise time gets significantly quicker, which is better for your jitter.
Um, as another of course is handled by the gain an algorithm. If you have a reasonable gain, you'll be able to sort of optimize your return.
Those are the two main components that come from the sensor.
Then the remaining are a second system related time arc is a pretty important factor in timing detectors.
Um, and this mainly comes from the fact that if you have a constant threshold that you're discriminating using your signal,
the amplitude will decide when the incoming timestamp is recorded.
If you don't account for this effect, this will smear your recorded resolution by several factors,
so we can easily take it from a detector that was capable of 30 picoseconds out to 100.
This is a fairly important, subtle effect that needs to be corrected, for it is fairly easy to correct for,
though if you measure both the time of arrival and how long the signal stayed above the threshold,
you can actually do a pretty simple calibration to correct for this. Um, and it is fairly cheap to implement this logic to implement this in logic.
Usually this is how both the, um, the first generation time and detectors are doing it.
Although you did hear about the concentration discriminator idea where you can actually just get, oh,
get rid of this term by having a discriminator that's insensitive to the amplitude variations in the signal.
That's another solution. Um, the other two terms are related to the system and the the chip.
The TDC error is mainly just a consequence of the fact that you are discretizing a continuous thing.
So the bin size that you use to discretize is going to set a natural jitter.
That's what that term is. This is a function of your TDC design. And it's uh and it's bin size.
The term from the clock is driven by mainly two sources of clock jitter.
One of them is going to be how well you distribute your clock to all the pixels in your readout chip.
And the other term is going to be, uh,
the other component of that is going to come from how well your system does a distributing a clock to all the readout chips in your system.
That's a much larger problem. If you have tens of thousands of chips running in the system.
Um, both, of course. Very meaningful contributions to this error term.
All of these systematics do have to be carefully controlled to make sure that you can
actually have a timing detector that can get you the 30 picoseconds that you need,
for instance, in the Maya, uh, detector concept. So that was a lot of information.
Um, but with that in mind, we can now maybe talk about what the current generation of detectors look like.
I think I'm okay on time for now. Maybe not. Actually.
Um, okay, so the Atlas and CMS experiments are both introducing for the upgrade and gap timing components that are silicon.
So it's silicon elegans that I just described. And readout chips.
These are essentially the first demonstration of this concept of doing precision timing at high energy physics detectors.
Um, and since they are the first generation in some sense,
that the parameters of these detectors are a lot kinder than we require them to be at the muon collider.
Um, this is a picture of the Atlas, uh, Atlas upgrade. And here's the CMS timing detector.
I'll probably spend most of my time here again. I'm also a little biased cuz I'm also from CMS Boulder and mostly from this detector.
Um, for CMS, actually it's going to be hermetic. At the HLC we also have a.
Barrel component that won't talk about here too much. Since, um, this uses crystals, it's not relevant for the tracking layers.
So what matters to us for this discussion is the end cap, which is also going to be silicon.
Just like the Atlas detector, there's a lot of commonalities between them to use the same type of look at the same pixel pitch.
And I'll get into the details of the readout chips and the old guards, uh, in the next few slides.
But first, here's a more realistic picture of what this, uh, end cap detector would look like,
which I just wanted to show to highlight the fact that even though these are the first generation detectors, we're not really going small.
Uh, these are going to be fairly complicated things for a first time, trying to do this in a half detector,
um, for the, uh, for the ETF here, the end cap for the CMS detector.
This is going to be a two meter plus in, in in diameter, 14 meter squared, 8.5 million channels.
That's a lot of synchronization to do for something that is going to give us like 35 picosecond resolution for track.
So it's going to be a huge challenge, uh, to do this for the first time.
Um, I think it's always nice to appreciate the actual scale of it to, um, then not the conceptual picture.
But now let's go to the details of the sensor on the readout chip. First, let's talk about the sensor.
The logo has been used for the E2 and likewise for the for the Atlas HDTV.
The design goals for them are listed up here. That's basically what informs the choices that were made for these sensors.
So we know that these are going to be exposed to a few factors, like two times ten to the 15 neutron equivalents.
That number, by the way, is actually quite compatible with what I just showed yesterday.
But what we need to be able to survive at the muon collider detector is like the Maya concept.
So that is there's a nice that these targets are actually very compatible.
Um, furthermore, for these sensors,
we also have to make sure that we again the the resolution contribution from them stays below uh 30 to 50 picoseconds
because we do need that 50 picosecond per hit in this two layer detector to get a 35 picosecond resolution per track.
That largely sets the limit on what we have for these first generation detectors.
I should say set the width of these to 50 microns, which is not as thin as it could be,
but it's a safe limit here, balancing both radiation hardness and race time.
Um, and having a gain layer that gets us a gain of about 10 to 30, which is appropriate for us, uh, for these detectors to survive the full ten year,
three universe out of bounds that we need them to survive or have put here
the degradation in the time resolution of these sensors versus bias voltage.
As we irradiated these sensors, getting closer and closer to what we expected.
Let's see, uh, irradiation is going to look like of course, I should say we have two different, uh, vendors that are going to make our guides,
in particular, the elegance that will go into the parts of our detector that are closest to the IP,
for the ones that will actually have the hardness requirements on the radiation hardness, uh,
these have carbon core implants and they're going, okay, have carbon coal implants in their gain layers.
This is to ensure that the gain doesn't degrade as quickly under radiation damage.
If we hadn't done that, we wouldn't actually be able to increase the bias on these to the point where we could
still get the kind of performance we need from them at the end of their lifetime.
Um, they would actually die a very violent death.
Um, and the reason they do that is because if you keep increasing the bias, at some point, the local field gets so strong that a charge,
any charge deposited by a minimum minus protocol will actually create a fully conducting path through the pixel.
And it will just it will kill the pixel literally burning a hole through the pixel. Um,
so that that carbon core implantation actually is one of the important one of the many important lessons actually
learned during the development of these first generation detectors about how to make these guides radiation hard,
and certainly something that we will have to carry over into these, uh, muon timing layers.
Um, now, in a few minutes, let me talk about what the projected improvement, uh, could look like for sensors as we go to Mallorca.
Letters that perhaps won't dwell on this because I have too much time.
I've put a selection of four ideas that in principle, could, you know, morph into what sensors for these 40 tracking layers may look like?
Um, and you've seen some of them already in, in both NATO stock and pristine stock.
Um, so I'll briefly talk about them. Franchise retail guides basically replace that engineer solution at the end of the pixels that try
to stop your field within each pixel with a deeply basically a deep trench with isolating material.
There's a lot narrower that lets you get a pretty high fill factor, even when you shrink the pixel down to like 25 micron pixel pitch.
So that's a pretty viable solution to get down to the sort of pixel patches we need from you on collider detectors.
That's good. Then you heard about maps. This the basic concept of monolithic pixels is adding the transistors.
You need to do your actual processing right on the sensor itself,
if you have to put them within a sufficiently insulated pocket so that you can
actually get away with all the sensitive electronics working right on the silicon,
if you can, you actually get a much more basically monolithic sensor out.
But these have been used at the LHC already. But in the context of precision timing,
it is fairly easy enough for us to add a gain layer to these old guides and now make them appropriate for precision timing.
Um, you already heard about that, I did. So I'll move on to talk about 3D sensors.
You heard about this also yesterday, where in principle,
you can take your pixel away from its planar geometry and insert the electrodes into the bulk of the pixel.
That lets you not need a gain layer, because now the charges don't have to travel a lot.
Basically, they have to travel very little to get to the electrode, so you get a really quick release time.
You're sacrificing now on the amount of charge that you're collecting, which you then have to compensate with the readout electronic.
That's much more sensitive.
But this is a pretty effective way of getting pretty small pixel pictures and actually having fields isolated in each pixel.
If we were to use this for timing, I think we probably have to use these trench, uh,
trench like geometries over the columnar geometries because you get much more uniform fields in them.
That's a matter of personal opinion. Then finally talking about radiation hardness.
There are specific materials being explored.
Diamonds have been carved by particular examples that are designed specifically to be really radiation hard.
So precision timing maybe isn't necessarily top of mind when designing these,
but you can actually make them in geometries like 3D geometries or again, layers of them that can make them appropriate for precision timing too.
But these really are this are basically designed for essentially each level of radiation.
These may be quite good candidates for putting if we wanted to instrument the, um, the shielding nozzles, you know, perhaps you have layers of these,
but more appropriate than having the standard elements or even some of the variations of the old guys that I discussed.
For the remaining time, I'm going to talk about the Asics, the second half of, uh, what makes timing detectors.
So this is the, uh, the CMS, uh, and carried out to be rock 16 by 16.
Here is the layout. It has most of the basic components that I describe in my from my very simple schematic earlier.
Except now at LHC experiments, you do have to have memory on board because you have to buffer the data that you've collected until you receive the,
uh, you receive a trigger from the readout system that then allows the chip to chip off the data.
So that does add additional complexity for these chips that in principle, you may not need I mean, colliders.
And that would be both a saving of power and real estate.
It's an interesting thing to keep in mind when we think about how this may carry over, uh, to the collider detectors.
Again, the design of this chip, just as the design for the sensors, largely guided by the constraints we place on them.
First one, of course, being the noise contribution needs to be again on the order of less than 40 picoseconds
to make sure that the combined sensor plus readout only gets you about 50 picosecond.
That's a first, though. But you can't do this with infinite power. You actually have to make sure that you can run and cool this detector.
Um, and so for these first generation detectors with a pretty liberal cooling budget of one watt per chip,
this is orders of magnitude higher than what you can get away with at your innermost tracking layers in the muon collider.
This assumes liquid cooling. If you want it to do air cooling, you have to get a bit radical.
Um, going to lower smaller nodes. I'm going to talk about that later.
Go with the smaller nodes. Probably a better way to make your power consumption smaller,
in which case you would actually get possibly factors of 100 improvement in the power consumption per centimeter squared.
That may be a solution, uh, for how you can have these readout chips doing the same kind of complicated things they're doing.
But at the moment, the lighter the radiation hardness requirements for these A6 are sort of hundred megawatt region,
again, very compatible with the numbers that Simone were showing for what is needed at the muon collider.
So really for the sensor and the readout chip, the radiation hardness requirements are very compatible between what we need in the
innermost layers of the mill collider and what we already are designing for for the HL,
let's say. Well, that is certainly at least good news.
The development timeline of the readout chips, much like the, uh, the laggards, tend to take a long time.
The El gets our ten plus years into their development is usually the same thing with A6.
I think with A6 it's maybe a little bit more challenging because the sensor development I think can continue past the technology freeze out.
That needs to happen for for readout chips since it's much more inflexible to try and adapt readout chips.
But it's, I think, easier to modify and home the design of your silicon before.
That's that's perhaps a caveat that I think I we should probably keep in mind the detectors for the that are so,
so far ahead that these, these timelines may not actually work. We may have enough generic R&D that we have.
We could have a really exciting accelerated timeline for for readout of development for me on us by that point.
Um, and of course, once you have a final chip, it's not as if the chip is just going to work.
It could take several years to actually make sure that the chip you have and the sensor you have actually behave in the way that you expect them to,
especially if you have an incredibly dense tracking layer, uh, with, with an unprecedented pixel density, all of whom are doing precision timing.
So we'll take a level of system level integration and testing that I think we are
just beginning to understand as we work on these first generation detectors.
I wouldn't be doing my job if I didn't tell you that, uh, these first generation detectors.
I think we're going to do fine. Um, both. So this is the CMS timing, performance.
Um, you also saw, like a more detailed map in Christine's talk and also the true for the Atlas detector.
We're pretty confident we'll hit the 50 picosecond mark on these, uh, across the full lifetime.
So when it comes to actually our confidence in being able to pull these detectors off, it was pretty good.
I think we should be able to pull these detectors off. So that bodes well for, I think, future tracking 4D tracking at me on colliders.
Which I think would be critical because if these don't work, I think we can forget about, um, timing in any future for later.
And finally, I think I'm already. Over time, I'll use a couple of minutes to talk about what we could do with A6.
But for me, on colliders, the biggest problem again here, if we go from, you know,
these are once again one millimeter pixels, you have to go to 25 micron pixels.
That's a dramatic, uh, increase in the density of your logic.
I think you can only get away with that if you go to the smaller process.
Now, this question was pointing out, um, you not only get a higher logic density when you do that,
you also also get lower power density when you do that.
So it might actually just be, uh, inevitable that we do that.
Combining that, though, with radiation hardness is challenging.
We really have to study how radiation or for instance, 28 nanometer, uh, devices really are in the face of a hundred microns or more.
I'll speculate here at the end, a couple of ideas for what might work in this maybe is a bit provocative,
because it's a solution for both the Isaac and the sensor.
I'm claiming that the final solution for these 40 tracking layers may live at the intersection of these three technologies,
where you've already heard about maps.
This is a different presentation now, but same concept of you will have your some element of your front end sitting right on your sensor.
I think the element of your front end that makes the most sense to sit right on your sensor is the analog front,
and the part that's the most sensitive to signal integrity issues.
And that usually does suffer the most from there being a giant solder ball between your readout and your sensor.
So if you can get rid of that and have your analog readout right on top of the sensor, you will benefit from that.
And we know that it isn't impossible to get maps to work for precision timing.
Uh, once you add a gain layer. So you can actually basically make the same sort of planar sensors that we have with El guides,
just with a little bit of logic on top, that seems like a good compromise. You shall have to deal with your other layers.
You still have to deal with your digital signal processing. There we may use the 3D integration that was just mentioned.
Again, this is the sort of industry standard way of stacking 3D ICS.
We could use that.
So again, doing away with these giant single connections, having a much more dense array of interconnects between layers of silicon,
which would allow us to basically separate the analog front end from the noisier digital signal processing and have separate planes,
will power and clock delivery. So clean power to your our front end and a clock distribution that's far superior to what we have.
Um, you know, current planar sensors that of course all has to then be accommodated with the smaller pixel.
Notice that allows you to actually make something that's 25 microns with all the logic you still need and stay with,
you know, factors of 100 less than the sort of power draw we have.
So probably somewhere at the intersection of those three things I think is where our future probably lies.
But I think this is a bit of a personal opinion. Uh, disclaimer I should be there.
And I think with that, I'll end it. That was an immense amount of information.
So thank you for your attention. Great.
Thank you very much. We have time for some questions. So more so as we improve the individual timing detectors.
What's the progress on the jitter and other specs for distribution or large size detectors as
as is that confidence increased confidence and being able to distribute the timing signals.
That's a really excellent question. So for for the EPO, for the CMS and Atlas upgrades,
we believe that the it's actually things like the clock jitter that comes for the whole signal
is going to be within the acceptable mark for what we only need 50 picoseconds per head,
right? Which is in principle a bit more lenient than you would need at the Mirror Collider.
You would need better clock distribution in principle, if you're improving a resolution,
and there is a talk by Rohith in the parallel that is actually going to talk about possible ideas for improving clock generation.
Um, and I mean clock distribution and getting the jitter on that better.
So for these, for this first generation of the factors, we do have that a lot control.
But if for projecting out to these collider detectors with this much more dramatically dense network of pixels,
we probably and also better resolution requirements, we probably do have to actually do better on the clock distribution, among other things.
Um, power distributions are the big one. Clock and power distribution are both really big and both acceptable right now,
but we would really have to improve them to actually get away with it at the middle.
Collider. Very good. Thank you. Do we have a second question?
Maybe I can ask a little bit regarding your last slide. Uh, so these are three somewhat challenging technical steps.
Uh, can you comment on combining them? Oh, yeah.
This is purely speculative. So adding game to maps I think is understood.
Right. And people are already experimenting with it.
Theory integration is like probably the most blue sky on the set of three blobs, because that something we're just playing with.
If we have a process that works well, getting the 3D integration to work with maps,
which are already fragile, I think it's going to be a pretty challenging step.
Um, so I would say this is firmly in the blue sky category of what's possible for the future,
but if it works, I think it's a very elegant solution to the problem. Um, 29 I mean, I think this this is actually being explored.
Also, this is somewhat more established. Probably radiation hardness needs to be established with the 28 nanometer A6.
But like people are exploring this for sure.
I think the interplay between maps of 3D integration is probably where it's like the most blue sky projection I think I'm making here.
Very good. Well thank you. Do we have, uh, another question? Great.
Well, we'll close there. Thank you again.
