# AM:  Accelerator: Parallels

Uh, my name is McLeish. I'm from Brookhaven Lab. I will be chairing this session.
Um, so the first talk is from Luca Bottura.
Um, he will be presenting to us, um, uh, muon Collider, uh, relevant, uh, magnet R&D, uh, in Europe.
So floor is yours. Look up. Please go ahead. Thank you very much.
Thank you for the invitation to, uh, present and, uh, the title says, uh, magnet, uh, R&D in Europe.
And it's actually something which is going on already across the Atlantic, although I will come back to that.
And, uh, I'm sure Ramesh will have comments on that too.
So I'm presenting this on behalf of the, uh, the task coordinators of the various parts where we divided the magnet R&D full year Bertini uh,
Barbara K5 another Baldini was connected somewhere, the Marriott Marquis, the data.
And, uh, so I'll, uh, talk about the magnets for the muon collider.
You know what we realize we need to do? Uh, I spend most of the time telling you what technical advances uh, we managed to make.
Look at, uh. Sorry. Uh, could you please pause for a minute? We are having some audio issues.
No problem. So if you if you have a microphone, could you please bring it closer?
Uh, the mic is already. Let me check this setting.
You know better like this. Yeah. Yeah, it is better.
Yes, yes. Yeah. Please go ahead. Yes. We switch to this.
Okay. All right. So as I said, I will talk about the magnets with the new Collider.
Spend most of the time on the technical advances in the past three years, four years.
Something about the work organization you may be interested in to. And then, uh, just a slide of somebody in perspective.
Okay. So Magnus for the muon collider. So.
Let me go. Maybe I'll get the laser going. Right. So, uh, I mean, you're familiar now with the, uh, with the layout.
It's something that comes out of map, which, uh, we worked on.
Uh, but essentially what we have is a series of magnets that, uh,
are extremely challenging from the target and capture solenoid, so requires order of 20 Tesla field on the beam.
Uh, the muon beam cooling solenoid is many solenoids, which, uh, have a medium to high field but relatively large bore.
So lots of stored energy and many of them all the way to the final cooling magnets, which are, uh, the kind of top of the field,
not necessarily the most challenging, but surely, uh, very important for the whole performance of the machine.
And then accelerator and collider magnets, they range anywhere between 10 and 40 Tesla.
And uh, as you will see in a moment, is, uh, everything we're looking at is made of these.
Yes, there's obviously resistive magnets. So just touch briefly about that.
But the focus here is mostly on high view superconducting magnets, as you can tell from the field levels.
So, uh, how do we managed to advance uh, for these value systems.
So starting from the targeting capture solenoids. Uh, so we picked up the, uh, map design and then evolved out of that first one, the concept.
But as you can see from here already into some details of engineering,
3D modeling, where we have a coil layout inside the coil, start with a beam pipe.
And what you see is already details about the piping, uh, winding, uh, where we need to apply techniques, which are kind of standard double pancakes.
But we're looking into the joints, the termination electric and insulation features.
And here, uh, the idea is to apply conductors that resembled very much those of fusion, which already map looked into.
But now we the evolution of the materials and what is that is happening and that is doing for fusion.
We are moving into the two to the point that lately, uh, in particular for the European strategy iteration,
we proposed a model coil that should demonstrate performance with target solenoid producing 20 times a 20 Kelvin operating temperature.
So, uh, we went further into integrating, uh, these magnet and cryostat cryo system designs into, uh, an ideal tunnel.
So this could be what the target region looks like, seeing from the outside,
you see the size of the person that gives you the feeling for the size of the system,
but also the details inside, all the way down to the target pipe and the supports which we would need for the massive shielding.
There's a lot of tungsten between the target and the coil itself, holder of 150 to 200 tons of tanks in there.
For the 60 cooling solenoids. We started off with the map design.
This the optics there was left, as in inheritance by the many studies that were performed at that time.
And uh, we collated all the, uh, the solenoids.
Uh, now, what you see here is all the cells, one after the other.
Now, you probably are aware, but each cell is actually consisting of many solenoids repeated.
So there's many cells in each of those stages. And there's a total of about 3000 solenoids with a field of 2.6 to 18 Tesla.
So that's actually the newest optics we've been looking at with three bore diameter, the range from 50 millimeter to 800 millimeter.
So obviously the low field is usually coupled to low uh, a bore and high.
You know, high field is usually coupled with low bore. Nonetheless the energy stored is substantial.
And also the coupling between the solenoids substantial.
So here as well we're moving into more engineering aspects like how do you integrate all of those solenoids in a string of components,
components that will make the accelerator. And we realize that actually the challenge is even not so much magnet performance.
A single magnet can get there.
But how do you integrate that into a system like you see here, which contains radiofrequency cavities, absorbers, the magnets, and the magnets?
Because of the alternating nature of the field, which is required through the coating,
experience very large repulsion forces, which, by the way, in case one of the magnet quenches, may change.
So that's one of the main engineering challenges we're working on here.
As for the, uh, target solenoid, we are looking into HDS solenoid winding.
In this case we're looking into non insulated winding with uh, the team is going through magnetic optimization,
mechanical design, thermal modeling and then multi physics studies.
I'll come back because it's one of the aspects that probably we are pushing forward in magnet technology the most.
This uh spot is uh accelerator magnets that are concerned.
The final cooling I already said is holy. One of the highest is is the highest field magnet, uh, in the chain.
Uh, it doesn't even in setting the highest energy. But surely we look, there's an outstanding realization.
40 Tesla, 50 millimeter bore magnets in the range of half a meter to one meter length.
And the concept has been translated lately into, again, engineering.
So we have, uh, structures which are pretty compressed at that level of field.
The electromagnetic pressure is enormous.
So you have stresses in the range of 600 mega pascals in the coil, which is at the limits of what the coil can sustain.
And, uh, that is supported by both, uh, design and, uh,
stress analysis studies and what we are doing at the moment, we are moving into actually prototyping.
So this, uh, magnet is built in pancakes, uh, slices that are stacked one on top of the other after being compressed.
And these, uh, pancakes, they are actually soldered.
So the tape is not a conductor that is insulated, but is wound and then soldered by tin so that it becomes actually a mechanical component,
but that you need the specific tooling which we designed the realized.
And what you see here is the first of these Asian pancake windings that are being realized that we speak.
So this is one of the, uh, nice views. It's not rendering, it's real.
And it shows you both the beauty and the issues related to that.
So, uh, these pancakes which are soldered, you see here some of the shoulder drops to get,
uh, polished away once we need to stack one on top of the other.
Uh, we have we are producing, uh, order of one pancake per week,
so that we hope already before the end of the year to start having first results for prototyping.
First step towards the 40 Tesla that you saw just before.
Now I mentioned multi physics before. Uh, multi physics is uh,
one of the uh characteristics of this magnets which are non insulated and made with
states and especially if you have traces when you ramp them up or ramp them down,
but especially if they quench, you know, if they ever quench so turns into normal state.
What that means is that the the current starts moving out of the pancakes.
So being dissipated by the resistive transition and induces a kind of wave from the top pancakes to the bottom pancakes,
like in this simulation, where the quench is initiated at the top of the magnet and it's moving down towards the other end of the magnet.
Now, uh, that results also stress. So the thermal transient produces an electromagnetic transient which produces a force transients.
That's how the multi physics needs to be understood. Well, we realized that doing nothing.
Then maybe situations where the stress goes above the allowable.
And that is why we are looking also into specific and improved protection systems where we actively spread the misery.
As one of the gurus of superconductivity used to say Martin Wilson, when a quench happens, you want the coil to go at once, the whole coil.
And that can be done as an example here, by using a capacitor discharge, what do you actually induce a quench throughout the coil,
which was which is most much more benign than I think this way going through.
Okay. So all of this is happening for the faulty Tesla, but not only also for the 60.
And as we'll see later for the accelerator magnets now moving to accelerators.
So the Rapid Cycle Synchrotron and the hybrid so-called synchrotron there I'm sure you're aware
and you know the that accelerator configurations are the tricky especially for the hybrid ones.
Because what happens is that the beam that goes through the cycled pulsed resistive magnets and the steady
state superconducting magnets is actually oscillating in orbit from a high energy orbit to a low energy orbit,
as the strength of the pulse magnet is changed.
But the strength of the superconducting magnet does not change.
Okay, so here one of the challenges is surely beam physics, but also accepting that beam motion inside the resistive magnets.
And this is why the resistive magnets they look like this. So they have a rectangular aperture, a large width, and a relatively small gap,
which is useful because the energy stored, as you will see in a moment, is proportional to the gap.
Now, the superconducting magnets, which also need to be relatively high performance.
So ten Tesla, they will see some radiation.
And so it would be beneficial to have them a relatively high temperature of the order of 20 K.
And there from initial studies that we did at CERN, we moved into a bit more conceptual magnet studies.
As you see from the plots here, where we have a racetrack has coils that are placed to produce the ten Tesla field,
even with an open meet gap and with a 30 by 100 aperture.
So 30 millimeter gaps, 100 millimeter aperture in the horizontal plane.
So this looks like a very interesting concept,
especially because it looks like very much a dipole that is being produced at the moment in industry as part of the Italian Covid recovery plan.
It's a dipole which is called asthma. And these made exactly with this type of coil.
So these types. So this could be one first prototype that pushes the technology that we need for the accelerators.
Now for the accelerators, actually, beyond the, uh, the, uh, nice work on superconducting magnets.
The real issue, uh, to be frank, is actually the management of the large powers, because once you have.
A resistive magnet with a certain gap in a certain aperture.
The energy stored in that gap as a sort of value.
You can't do anything about that. What's the gap in aperture of fixed?
You would have, you know, 30 by 100 millimeter. We'd have about four kilojoules per meter stored.
Now, the energy stored in the whole magnet is a bit more than that because you will circulate circulate back the flux lines.
And so you will be ending up in the order of five kilojoules per meter, which is already very efficient.
But now, if you have a machine of all of the length of the order of ten kilometers, okay.
And as you know, we're looking into any implementation at CERN with the seven kilometer order to see which is 28.
So that's the right order of magnitude, the magnetic energies of the order of 50 mega, mega joules.
And if you want to pulse that up and down with a millisecond timescale, you end up with the volt ampere, which is 50 giga volt amperes.
So the main challenge is to manage that volt ampere precisely because you want to ramp the beam,
minimize the storm magnetic energy, and especially having a highly efficient energy storage recovery.
So obviously we are working very hard on that with ideas of power converters and how to store and recover the energy, particularly the magnets.
That's the last point. So, uh, at the beginning of the study, uh, it was not clear what the specs would need to be for the magnets.
And that's a situation which is kind of new to us,
meaning that usually you get the specs in terms of field aperture quality, some other features, but then you work on that.
Now in this case the, the, the, uh, the space, the design space was a bit more open, uh,
implying that there were questions about what is the field that you can generate with a certain aperture,
what is the gradient that you can generate with a certain aperture. And this is exactly what you done.
So we've created plots where we plotted the board diameter.
So the aperture the magnet that you can imagine designing with the sort of field in the case of a dipole.
Okay. So that's an e b plot E for aperture B for field.
And we did that in particular. In this case we're now using treating implementing limits that come from now being 3D in performance.
So how far can you push the superconductor is where is where there's mechanical limits.
There's a blue line here. What is the stress that you can sustain in that magnet, as well as quench protection with this orange dotted line here?
What is the maximum energy density that you can actually protect for that magnet?
So we came up with plots like this for different materials as well as HDDs.
So in particular the rare earth barium copper oxide which is a 20 K.
We give you an AB plot like this. So as you see already,
that opens up a wider window of possible designs for magnets that have either wider aperture to the same field or higher fields at the same aperture.
Now that be careful though, provided that quench protection, which is the dotted orange line here,
is not done with the classical detect and heat with quench heaters.
But this is done doing non insulating windings there too.
So that's the small dotted line you can barely perceive here.
Okay. So that will open up the window that we want to use for the collider.
So that line is possible for the muon collider magnets because they're steady state.
They don't need to be around. So they do need to actually have a long time constant degree let alone type of special.
But you have to get to the field and you can stay there and adjust.
Now the same type of plots we've done also for quadruples. And just to show you what the useful nurses on a G plot.
So I saw that maybe its aperture gradient allows you to understand.
As an example, if you decrease the operating temperature,
what you see is that you have a big effect and the given aperture for large gradients and the small effects for small gradients okay.
So decreasing aperture these are decreasing operating temperature.
Which implies increasing operating current density, makes you gain a lot in gradient for a given aperture.
Okay. Now, it's also interesting to see what is the effect of cost, which is an implicit variable.
In all of this we said a given cost which is €400 per meter.
And what you see is that the cost increase as a large effect, a low gradient by making bigger magnets possible.
That makes sense at high gradients where the magnets are anyway small by accepting higher cost doesn't make an effect.
Okay, so having these studies was actually a tool to discuss with beam physics what is the best machine that we can work on now?
It's a tool. The work is not finished, it's ongoing, but it's one of the things that could be possibly taken up also in collaboration with the US.
Now beyond that, we then we said, uh, operating point.
And in fact, your point is simple. We decided the magnet can be actually it's a we said a field of 14 Tesla for an aperture of 150 millimeter,
which is what we need for shielding reasons. And then we started.
Magnet design like you see here. So this is a cross-section of a magnet based on tapes,
where the innovation here is to add racetrack coils as well as bedstead coils where the curvature radius can be made relatively simple.
So we're looking into 14 Tesla at least maybe cost be below 400 kilos per meter in this,
uh, configuration like this can lead to fields up to 15.7 Tesla.
And now with this we also looking into different configuration.
So these block coils that you see already on the left hand side but also cosine of theta where you can bend single tapes into a t to form.
Uh, something to be said. You're going back to the, uh, map studies.
There was a lot of excellent work that is done. We are also looking into combined function magnets.
And in that case, if you don't want to lock the ratio, the gradient to the field.
The best is to have magnets one side, the other.
Now the question could be do you want to put a quadrupole inside the dipole, the sort of windings that you see on the left hand side?
Or do you want to put a dipole inside a quadruple. That's the one you see on the right hand side.
And what we found out that this most efficient configuration is actually the one with a quadruple inside the dipole.
And that's consistent with the studies which we've done now.
More than ten years ago by Fermilab.
We are also that configuration of a quadrupole inside a dipole was found to be the most efficient one for the three TTV center of mass Muon Collider.
Now, as to the work organization, a couple of slides to show you where we stand.
So, uh, we are an International Muon Collider collaboration had expanded in that there's an activity line which is called magnets.
And that's what these work packages. But it is also supporting European study design study which is called Mukul.
And there there is a work package seven which is called magnets.
And fact will be managed to do is to align nearly perfectly the work on the international
Mu Collider collaboration at the Mu core so that the mirrored one to the other.
So essentially we have a coordination or communication task.
So I'm doing that. Bernardo Baldini will take over soon with the help of Bob Erica.
He was a newcomer in there from a univ in Geneva.
And then we have three task, which are the three Magna systems. You saw the solenoids from the targets with the 60 cooling.
That's a and if any mirana the accelerators. That's under the coordination of CERN and the collider, which is under coordination of an event.
The main instrument for coordination is the Mule Magnets Working Group.
And many of you have been participating.
So this is why I said at the beginning, I mean, this is the EU aspect that is actually already in collaboration with you.
And each task organizes internal meeting and external meetings with other work packages as an example of beam physics, neutrino flux and so on.
And by the way, uh, you can open up the link. Everything is open and you can browse the material.
There's a lot of materials and over 200 meetings that took place since three years ago.
Now, it's also interesting to remark that the dust to solenoids is partly mirrored by a work package 2.6, which is solenoid for the new collider.
And this part of the high field magnets are in the program, which is hosted by CERN.
So there's code sharing, sharing of many activities where the solenoid technology,
non insulated mechanical material testing is relevant with the broad scope of Hfm, which is mostly oriented to accelerator dipoles and quadruples.
Nonetheless, each magnet technology can progress also through solenoids work.
And now I think this is probably one of the most important messages here for the meeting.
I think it would be a good result. Defining a formal form of collaboration to the US Mangla development in particular Usdp.
But I know that there is a reorientation that is taking place, is taking place.
Probably Ramesh is going to talk about that takeover. Also new Collider Accelerator board.
So I think it would be good to have a formal link that actually binds the programs together.
Uh, we also worked out a plan from today through the R&D,
through prototyping and production to make sure that what we are saying that the machine by the 2045 is realistic.
And in fact, you know, without entering into the details of the plan.
What is interesting is that the medium term R&D. So over the next ten years, which we propose that the European strategy, uh,
meeting that took place in Venice being evaluated before the end of the year, now aims at increasing the TRL.
So this plot is a technology readiness level for the value systems,
so that we can get to a level of six, which is typically what you would need to enter into industry.
And I think the deal equivalent is that you move it to the next step in the project.
Now. The trail that you will need for a 3D TV option, which will be based on a target coding rapid cycle synchrotron,
which would only use resistive magnets in a collider in a long tunnel,
which may you only use W beam titanium magnets is relatively high, but it would need a lot of vertical solenoids,
but much less on accelerator dipoles, and quadruples because the dipoles quadruples in urban tire essentially ready industry already.
So that's also interesting to consider. And that's what directed our choice to prime the R&D on the solenoid magnet.
This is what the R&D proposal looks like in terms of the material required, in terms of personnel required.
It's just those figures. But what you see is that a total of about 80 million CHF dollars.
Call them whatever you want in a total of about 250 years are required till the next ten years.
More or less half of them during the first five years, then the other half of them for the next ones.
Okay. So to conclude a summary. I think everybody's aware that the new collider poses some unprecedented challenges to accelerate the technology.
And first and foremost, magnets. And that's what is making that so much interesting.
This requires actually that we develop new concepts and engineer new solutions.
I do not think it's a personal opinion or opinion, but I think it's pretty much shared.
You cannot build an effective, performant new collider with present technology.
You need something you. This, uh.
We need also to consider in the perspective that these worldwide efforts, we produce the next step in a direction that today we not may even imagine.
Okay.
In particular, I refer to these magnet technology where there is so much activity, not just in accelerator technology, but also in many other fields.
Fusion power elements harmonize where we may profit from things we don't know yet.
And a good reference is the report of Mario Draghi when he was talking about the future of European, uh, of European competitiveness.
But he said that 30% of the technologies we need to resolve the climate crisis, we don't even know today.
Okay. So it's important to be also humble and look around and see what the others are doing.
Nonetheless, I think it's my personal opinion that any next step Collider, the energy frontier,
not just New Collider, but also the FCC will arguably need regular technology for various reasons.
There was no time to enter into details. But surely for the capital, the investment.
These are magnets with highly compact windings. The faulty test that will show you is three times smaller and ten times smaller mass.
Then a user facility that has been devised for high yield testing today.
So these are very high compact windings, high engineering current density which means lower unit material cost.
You will spend less also the operating expenditures if you operate at higher temperatures like 20 K.
And the helium inventory will have lower risk, lower cost.
And finally, the return on investment.
There's clear a strong case that this high energy physics technology will be useful to other scientific and societal applications.
So this is why the work we are doing for the muon Collider, yes, is to the frontier.
Yes, we need it, but not just with the new collider. And that makes it interesting.
And we did. Thank you very much for your attention. So thank you.
Luca, we we have time for just one quick question.
If if somebody has. Um, and slide 14, uh, I believe, uh, you should the margin limit of the Ricoh.
Um, and I just wanted to ask because it's not sort of a smooth curve and there's a bend.
What's going on around that? Uh, like 17 Tesla bit there.
Okay. So actually, well, what's happening there is that, uh.
Uh, you have a temperature. Margin. Did you want to impose? And then at a certain point, you actually hit the visitor card.
So, uh, this is operator operation 20 K, by the way.
So, uh, you can always put more material to have lower current density.
Make the magnet bigger, up to a certain limit. And then you're limited by the cost.
Okay. So that's the smooth curve. And at a certain point, whatever you do.
The critical current of the critical temperature is a certain value.
Even if you increase the amount of material, there's no more steam and this is steeper.
Does it make sense? Okay.
So, uh. Yeah. So, uh, let us thanks.
The thank the speaker again. Uh. Okay, so, uh, next talk is by Ramesh Gupta from Brookhaven Lab.
Uh, he will be talking about, um, us contribution to, uh, muon, uh, relevant, uh, magnets R&D in in us.
Yeah. A. Hello?
Can you hear me? Yep. All right. Thank you.
So I will be talking about the muon collider magnet development in USA.
So first the introduction. There has been a significant magnet R&D program in US across various institutions.
This is one complete SBIR SD card program and that product related to specific needs of the Moon Collider.
Before the brief introduction, the formal defined magnitude program on Moon Collider has not restarted yet.
There are significant ongoing programs in US that are strongly related to the New Moon Collider.
So what I will do here, I will give you a rapid tool to give you an idea of wide ranging R&D we had in us in the past, or just started.
It's okay. Okay.
So what I have X slides from redistribution, etc.
What I'm not doing, I'm not giving any programmatic view.
Uh, there is a format program called USM DP program which looks amazing, which is for next generation mega R&D, generic R&D.
But you see, if the listeners have seen it before, most of them should help me on Collider.
So first let me go to the same thing.
But look, I was saying we didn't collude in Japan dropping in a high temperature superconductor, those trillion R&D conductor.
No one should take it that they are ready to use.
They have come a long way and unprecedented funding from fusion industry had made a major impact, and I think we should take advantage of that.
Like in fusion can make significant impact on the design performance of the collider.
This is due to their unique ability to withstand higher energy loads.
There are a lot of you know, there are a lot of heat loads, radiation load.
They can operate at 20 K instead 2 to 4 K and they can generate high fields, very unique properties.
Some of them look independent single day basis coil which we built in past the performance issue.
So we must learn to take advantage of that as given, such as those being developed by the industry.
What it means that sometime we cannot use the conventional design.
And in that case we should look at the alternate design. We should be free to look at that trend design.
We have many young people here. We look forward to that. So I'm not going to go to the magnet needs if I one slide from Steve Gourlay,
which I borrowed and which I mainly need for future Collider and Fusion Collider and one Collider,
and I just add one more to like what different can be done.
One can have open footprint dipole to reduce large aperture.
What I would do here, I would summarize the work performed in previous years now underway.
And that came from various institution in alphabetical order.
And it's not a complete list. I apologize for omissions.
So first let me come to what I've done in Brookhaven. You will find many time there are hyperlink where the underlined is hyperlink.
You can get to more information that. So what at Brookhaven what I'm going to do is going to include R&D with PBL.
But and we share program. We did a lot of R&D on this.
So tonight you will see that. And also the research program BNL LDA D.
That's what additional energy studies. We did that design concept which are relevant to me on Collider.
And as such we have built and tested over 150 has called using 50 or more equivalent of a test format.
I would like to share that. We would like you to make a huge mistake. Not the same one.
So. All of this program, it is important to get the funding.
So basically you have an idea that's not enough. You have to find the funding to test it.
So what we did, we got wherever we could get at in the beginning as well.
Our program played a major role here. There are 11 pro funded program.
Then we got some funding for smash through our pie and maybe even better insulated coil we got from Korea on a concert.
No installation, and we did a lot of radiation energy study that was from every nuclear physics not have any effects.
So let me quickly go through that. I will be going very fast. Uh, so this was the SBIR.
We are the target field 10 to 12 Tesla and we got 16 Tesla doesn't happen too often, but that was good.
And but we could not complete the testing. The quality still there.
And that could be done. The overall current density there was 520 square at 16 Tesla per millimeter.
Then we had smash where we got 12.5 Tesla at 27 K.
This is the parameters. And that time that was the record at ten Tesla Perabo.
And it might differ gnarly and fusion proposals.
Those guys are still there to continue. Then we had no insulation program.
The scoria these are many no installation quite being found.
But we had together with the no insulation. Let me see if I can use this I don't.
Sorry. It's not working for me. Not from the angle I'm sending.
We had copper plate in between. So what you see here, that current suddenly drop, and that helps in quench production.
We had them for uniform cooling, but that original production.
So that that was very helpful that there were 17 Tesla field.
And then we also had a coil program.
And why it is important because in every facet of every aspect of beam, there's a lot of radiation large.
It loads and loads. And that is relevant because we have many thing.
So this one, by operating at 40 K and we have large margin, we are like 27% margin.
And let me see if I can get it. We had large margin here at both places.
So that is very, very relevant to me on Collider. I would like to have that kind of market.
And we used a lot of like tape there.
And eight large coils are still available.
And then we had some radiation studies also and a breakdown unit at sort of facility, which is good for that.
We did at 77 K not 4k. That is still we didn't do that.
And but you can see that without field and bit field exchange the characteristic.
Basically it says that up to a certain level it can take that you know.
Then we also did the energy deposition study. And you see here we are fine.
And in between we had special heaters. So we got heaters put a significant load at 30 K.
We did that study. We put 4 kilowatt/m cube at some constant temperature operating somewhere.
And we had stable operation for 40 years or so.
And that was then we stopped the trend. So it kind of we showed some demonstration kind of work.
I will have a couple of few slides on the new mega design, and we should be looking for those kind of things or something else.
Again, they are hyperlink to go into more detail.
At first I would go to the open movement type of design and I would say this is a true open misprint.
Why? Because if you look at the at the conventional design, we need to have large shielding and that increases the aperture significantly.
So if you look aperture over here is so small but shielding makes it so large.
So what can we do to to do that to reduce that.
In my collider, the angular distribution is such that most of the decay particle at the McMillin.
So. So why don't you have a design where you do not have coils at the membrane?
So that was the motivation for the movement. Open printable design,
in which case we replace the superconductor near the x axis to avoid the direct hit that did avoid the direct hit from the primary shower.
But that didn't work too well because what happened to other materials created secondary showers and they deposit energy on the coil.
So what? We came up with a different design and this is called true open between design.
So here is the moon beam. And what you have here there is absolutely no structure.
Absolutely no structure. So the coils that will go from here far away.
This is a cartoon. But it did that all studies also and energy deposition etc.
You deploy your energy here theoretically remove it. So there is absolutely nothing hitting it.
Then the secondary power secondary particle don't go back there.
So that helps. And and then we take out them at eight K.
So this is what I call it to open plain. And in a typical open.
Why it is challenging because in a typical design that we're learning on the course are really towards the mic, they can't hang it there.
So what we developed a special open between design where the force is actually reversed.
And you can do that demonstrated that the first day on this course up there.
So the holes will not be pushed at me or I'll force they are still of course down there.
So we restrict it in between to transfer the forces out. We did a lot of studies that we did that we did.
You may mechanical design, magnetic design, good will, quality and preliminary design not dictated in design.
And since the basic design is so different, we need to test it.
And this can be done with the access call we have from everyone.
And this is a combination of. Combination of what we did study recently.
These are the coils used in this magnet. Take it out, put inside some structure and you can use 8 to 10 Tesla.
In fact the proof up with filters you can do in nitrogen itself which is quite cheap.
The other thing that we haven't talked about the most broken or even the even that even the cable magnet design for the,
uh, for the cable or something like that, we need to lift a conductor at the end.
It makes it longer and create strain.
We came up with another design called the pass or cloverleaf, in which what you see that you go this this is a small Bendix.
You can't do anything. So you're going to put it. Doctor may have all the freedom in the world and go down and go back like this.
If you have taken high, you must have acted to know how to do it. And and that, in fact.
So the beam goes right from here in between. It clears the aperture.
And that gives interesting opportunity. And we tested quite like that at 77 k the direction also.
And that's that's an interesting option. Now let me go.
And yet other place Fermilab uh so maintains the high field large magnet must deal with large stress in the coil.
That becomes a big deal. So you have to have a stress major structure. So right now they doing this design.
And I would be going very fast. You don't have much time but you see a lot of progress being done there.
And then on the on the right side, they're working on stackable with ETR with Mpls.
And and they are they are finding coins like this inside the structure.
And these are the goals over here. The target is five grams like 4.2 K.
And then on the side. And they have another stress major structure.
You see the design and you the 3D printed parts to to to do that.
At LBL and that do stress management with the canted cosine theta where you put wire inside this tube to take the force H at 63 by five,
Tesla then 65.5 Tesla, then vector 12 two 313 Tesla.
So they are going to stretch it. And then one interesting design h h is this elliptical aperture command function dipole.
Very innovative. So you have both elliptical aperture because it takes advantage that you do not have you do not need that kind of support.
And also combined function magnet. So that's design and that's being done there I'm sorry I'm going very fast.
But I'm just giving the overview. And then on the ripcord they have core which is somewhat similar to the core is Einstein.
And there they are that they are working for on this design to go for.
I feel they are making the making quite based on their design year as we are here at Magnet Lab,
and that's the place where they made a 32 Tesla superconducting solar.
Right. Very 11 moon collider. So in this like what.
And says that what are they changing going from 32 to 1440 Tesla.
So first 32 Tesla. It has been demonstrated and and now they plan to do for 40 Tesla.
So this is a basic of 32 raster design. It had been shown to work.
And this is the date of construction.
Everything is covered with steel insulator and metal insulation which has Broidy stress management kind of thing and important thing.
It's the quench protection which is all integrated here. And then it cannot be exactly used in 40 Tesla.
So here's the list of it. Differential are listed.
And you can do some scaling. So they are doing significant engineering.
But you know we didn't want to go in that direction. Then final institution in the morning.
This as many as we are urged at yarrabah and continued in many areas at.
This is a paper written in 2007 uh with the requirement to use domestic, which is a B.
This is a well cited paper on the initial design of actually like uh, at uh for the movie cooling.
And then they also had important work on the helical cooling and their in GTA.
As we I are with Fermilab, they built some model and tested it.
I would like to acknowledge before coming to summary slide that slides paper in discussion with several colleagues from Brookhaven PBL final,
Berkeley and Magnet left me. I think they contributed to this presentation.
In particular, I would like to thank Steve. Look at Lucas and all that.
We were listed here. So let me come to the summary we want.
Collider needs a variety of magnets. So tonight's dipole quadrupole, most with very challenging requirements in long term,
is likely to play a major role in the moon colliders because of its ability to operate at elevated temperatures or stability,
to create to tolerate large energy deposition or its ability to create very high fields or unavailable.
Thanks to so many challenges and need for new designs and technology.
You said I did field for the Recreation scientist, and in years to get involved, you can really make a difference.
So please join us in some of your past work at your represented.
One can build upon them or come up with something more creative.
Thank you. Thank you.
Ramesh. Uh, one quick question. We are way behind schedule.
Okay. Uh, okay. Hi.
Um, so on slide 15, you talked about the open mid plane dipole.
I'll try to make it quick. I'm sorry. So I think this is a great idea.
So a few days ago,
I was talking to someone about the tungsten miners and the power consumption that it would take because it's absorbing so much heat and all that.
So I think this is great, but I'm a little bit, I guess on the next slide,
you talk about how you would combat the issues with the Lawrence forces and the poor field quality with this type of design.
So can you talk about like what's going on right now and how they're thinking about fixing those issues?
So so we are. So what we did at that time, we bring your design and I would be glad to you can click somewhere.
You'll find the reference that we got both the field quality and the data force of it's going to go up there.
But what I am proposing to do here field quality.
You can do compute basic models. Right.
And to some level there okay. You can always adjust if they are not okay.
But the mechanical thing that can make calls which can really go in that direction.
So this is the model computer model I made with the existing coil atlas coil where
the force says if you see very clearly they are not running in a particular way,
you can arrange in such a way that forces of them are opposite to the midbrain.
The net force A will still be towards the midbrain, but you have a structure in between here or here which takes the forces down.
So we want to with these coils one can test if it is really working or not.
So that one is to demonstrate field quality, etc. one can do by computer, but these kind of things we need to do a demonstration.
Thank you. Okay.
Let's thank the speaker again. Thank. So the next talk is by Dylan, who will be talking about RF cavities.
Oh. Hello?
Can everybody hear me? Okay. You'd be louder. No worries.
Sorry. It's okay. Title didn't show up for some reason.
Mm. Title didn't show up. Uh.
No worries. Okay. Keep going as it. I'm going to go.
Okay. Uh, well, thank you, everybody, for the great turnout and for coming to this talk.
Um, and thank you to the organizers for the opportunity to present the research I've been doing.
The title didn't show up, but, uh, I've been doing some work with my supervisors,
Chairman Luo and, uh, Xiang Lu on, uh, some RF cavity design for the future of, um, Collider.
And, uh, so today I'll talk about some of the recent progress that we've had, uh, over these studies.
So here's an overview of the things I'll be talking about today. I'll go into some brief motivation, uh, for these studies.
I have three main, uh, studies that I've, uh, looked into that we'll talk about.
I'll go into some conclusions and future plans.
Uh, so before I get into the details of the work I've been doing, I think it's important to outline some of the,
uh, design considerations for the, uh, what I'm calling channel, uh, cavities.
Uh, so first, uh, as you've seen, there's very large magnetic fields present, uh, in the cooling channels.
And so it is necessary to have normal conducting RF cavities, um, and as we call this beam, uh, and the beam size, uh, the beam momentum shrinks.
Uh, the cavity requirements are going to change along this beam line.
And so, um, this requires multiple cooling stages to accommodate all the different gradients and,
uh, frequencies that are necessary to achieve those gradients and, uh, other things.
Um, and then so, uh, another thing that's important to know for these are of cooling or the cooling channel or off cavities,
is that, um, there's a thin window that encloses the iris in the proposed design.
So you can see an example cavity here by CERN. And, uh, the reason for this is because it helps reduce the, uh, breakdown probability.
Uh, in past considerations, beryllium has been used as the thin window, uh, for the, uh,
material, uh, because it, uh, has more breakdown resilience than copper in the you feel region.
And also this closing the cavity also increases the R of a Q value.
So we get more efficient acceleration.
Um, but with the introduction of these windows and the electric fields, there are some things we have to consider and look into.
Uh, so as I mentioned before, beryllium was the main proposed material for these cavities, but there's been some,
uh, talk about maybe moving away from that because of issues with handling and manufacturing of beryllium.
Uh, so, uh, for this work, I'm going to do a material trade study, uh, on this, uh, that you'll see later on the material window.
Um, we also need to assess the effects of beam loading.
So on, uh, along the muon cavity, we have very large sponge charges, uh, and very large, uh, transverse spaces.
So we might expect to see some, uh, significant, uh, beam loading effects, uh, which could impact the, uh, uh, quality of our beam.
Uh, and lastly, I'm going to talk about some, uh,
break down considerations and consider considerations of breakdown phenomena in these large magnetic fields.
Uh, so the first thing I'll be talking about is the scattering studies.
So basically what we've done here is using J on for, uh, I set up a very simple geometry shown down here in the bottom right,
uh, where we have two windows and, uh, a beam passing through those windows.
Uh, I assessed all of the stages that were proposed in the recent Ecmc publication.
Um, for reference, uh, and then the basic idea of what we're doing here is, uh,
I change the radius of these windows according to the design, uh, frequency defined by the MGC papers.
In each simulation, I simulated 200,000 particles, uh, with the same luminance values that were recorded in the MTC paper.
Uh, for the simulations, it's important to note that we ignored space charge effects and external fields because these will be the same,
uh, regardless of the window material.
So the scattering effects can still be considered, uh, and compared for the different materials without having these.
Um, and then for this, uh, work, uh, we assessed aluminum and beryllium, um, and we went from window thicknesses from 100,
1 to 100 and microns, uh, and the particles were incident for the window and then were just, uh, the figure of merit that we're using.
Sorry for the, uh, formatting issue here. Something happened with this by the figure of merit that we were using to assess the,
um, the scattering effect was looking at the transverse admittance.
It says here that the eye is equal to x or y, the x or y component.
Uh, so we're using the normalized transverse admittance here, uh, to see how the, the beam scatters according to uh, this model.
Um, and then uh, it's also important to note that particle decay is accounted for, uh, in the physics models that were used for.
And any particles that are decayed or scattered out of the simulation domain are ignored from all the calculations.
Uh, so here are some sample plots of the, uh, x, y distributions and z phase space.
Um, so some things to consider is here we show three different stages.
Uh, so A1 is the very first stage of the proposed, uh, rectilinear uh beamline.
B1 is the first stage after merging. So that's after the bunches are called a little bit.
They are put back together when they have a large phase space again.
And the very last one here is the final stage of the, uh, rectilinear cooling line.
Um, so you could see that at the very early stages, um, there's a very large admittance, uh, initially.
And so the effects of the windows and the scattering on the, uh, bunches,
very small, are almost negligible compared to the actual, uh, uh, batch size.
Um, and in the later stages, we see a very large growth.
Uh, and it's also worth noting that the particle loss for all these simulations was basically negligible.
Uh, so, um, that was a good to, uh, take away from this.
And then, so as I mentioned, uh, we compared the emissions values for these different stages.
Um, I compared A1 and, uh, B10 here just to be, uh, brief.
And they kind of encompass a lot of the, uh, properties of the other stages.
And so some things to notice is that as expected, um, at the earlier stages.
So at A1 the relative admittance changed from the initial defined admittance is very small.
And so um, and at the later stages when the beam is substantially cooled, the relative admittance growth becomes more substantial.
Uh, about about a factor or about, uh, by about an order of magnitude.
And what we see here, uh, in this plot, is that the aluminum material, uh, needs to, to achieve the same relative admittance loss or,
uh, relative admittance dilution, uh, needs to be about a quarter of the thickness of the beryllium windows.
Um, and one thing to note, too, is that all these, although these changes are pretty, uh,
small for the two single cavities I had and the actual linear cooling channel will have hundreds of cavities.
So, uh, this effect will grow with the number of cavities. And so that may be something to consider if we, uh,
decide to go with different materials and other things, uh, as we design the cavities for this beamline.
Uh, so next, the thing, the next thing I'll look into was, uh, some temperature dependent, uh, breakdown studies, um, for different materials.
So this work has been done before by this and some other people. Uh, so I'm going to go over the model briefly here.
The basic idea is that, uh, uh, the cavity walls can have a series that can be, uh, uh, local sources for, uh, field emission.
Um, and then those field emit electrons in the large metallic fields, get focused to the neighboring walls.
Uh, and then when they impact the wall, they deposit heat, uh, or energy in the form of heat.
And then this heat can cause local temperature rises.
Um, that could lead to breakdown. And so basically, what, uh,
was done in the previous works is starting with the heat conduction equation and some definitions of the power that the electrons are depositing.
You can solve for the local temperature rises, um, within your, uh, geometry that's cylindrical.
And if this local temperature rise surpasses the, uh, temperature threshold that's defined by the materials, uh, strength.
Um, then this could lead to dislocations, which leads to breakdown.
And so previous studies, as I mentioned, have been done using this same model.
Uh, and the primary focus of these studies was using beryllium, aluminum and copper, um,
where beryllium showed dominance, uh, due to its low density and large temperature threshold.
Um, and then, uh, some news, uh, some recent studies, uh, through the SMC, uh, actually inspired this work.
They had a very interesting approach. And, uh, that led me to go into the work I'm doing.
So basically what they did is they used a scaling model to, um, see how cold copper would,
uh, uh, uh, fend against these other materials in terms of its breakdown resilience.
Um, and the results showed that there's limited, uh, improvement when using cold copper, um, and under the assumptions that they've made,
uh, and then so what I decided to do was, uh, using this full model, uh, that was described before, that was, uh, previously done.
Um, I investigated cold copper from, uh, by modifying both its material properties.
So the thermal mechanical properties and also, uh, reducing, uh, assessing the reduced current that was shown in, uh, experimental work.
Um, and then so for this study, uh, I assessed 8 or 5, uh, megahertz cavities.
Um, I looked at high magnetic fields. So previously they went up to four Tesla.
I went up to 14. Um, and all of the results are assessed at the center of that geometry on the surface of the material.
And so these are the resulting figures, uh, comparing cold copper and red to the, uh, previously study materials.
And so some things to note here is that the lower magnetic field, uh, beryllium and aluminum are still outperforming the cold copper.
And this is because their temperature thresholds are so high that, uh,
at these lower magnetic fields, when the beam lifts are larger, they deposit less energy.
And so these, uh, materials, because they've such a high threshold, have more resilience.
But as the magnetic fields get larger and this beam shrinks and the deposit of power becomes, uh, more substantial.
The, uh, enhanced diffusivity of the, um, cold copper and its reduced, uh,
field emitted currents both contribute to higher breakdown resilience, uh, at these larger magnetic fields.
Uh, and then also continuing with this breakdown study, another thing I assessed was the effects of pulse length.
Uh, so the same people at Ecmc, uh, did a very nice study showing, uh, using that scaling model, showing that the, uh,
reduction of pulse length could drastically increase your, um, uh, your, uh, safe operating gradient shown here, uh, in the figure.
Um, and so, uh, doing a similar study with the full model that was proposed, uh, by doctors, uh, years ago, we assessed various pulse lengths.
And so what we see here is that at the lower magnetic fields, um, the, uh,
shortening the pulse length just by a little bit can substantially increase your, uh, safe operating, uh, gradient.
Um, and as we go, uh, higher and higher, uh, and so and then, so decreasing it down to the nanosecond level can,
uh, substantially, uh, and even more significantly increase your, uh, safe operating gradients.
And then as the magnetic field increases, um, we run into a diffusion limit.
So the diffusion length, the materials defined by the pulse length.
And at these larger magnetic fields, the, uh, bunch, uh, radius is becoming more comparable to that diffusion length.
So there's kind of a limiting factor of this diffusion length compared to the, um,
the beam size that the larger magnetic fields that you run into that will limit the effect of shortening the pulse length at these higher fields.
Um, and so, uh, moving forward, I also did some effect, uh, studies on the effect of beam loading.
So as I mentioned, we have large bench charges. So the beam loading is quite significant.
Um, some things to note here is that the, uh, wake fields that are excited, uh, by the bunch as it passes to the cavity,
can be decomposed into two components the space charge component, uh, from the bunch itself,
um, which will be substantial for the, uh, muon Collider, 0.9 beta, uh, velocity.
And also, uh, it can be the other term would be the geometric wake, which is the, um,
emitted radiation interacting with the surrounding cavity materials and other things.
Um, so that would be substantial, significant for the results. Uh, later.
So as a first attempt, uh, I looked at using CSD Wakefield solver, which uses a line charge, uh,
rigid line charge, uh approximation, um, to assess the effects of Wakefield's in the different geometries.
But as I mentioned before, these neuron collider cavities are closed, so they don't actually have, uh, beam pipe that passes through them.
And so, uh, I attempted to add a small beam pipe shown here with a depth D and radius ARP to see how this,
uh, insertion might affect the resulting Wakefield.
And so, uh, what we did or what I did was I ran simulations with the full, uh, structure of geometry here and then subtracted off the smooth pipe,
which would be the, uh, smooth pipe simulation by itself, which would basically just be the space charge wake.
And then subtracting those, you can get the pure structure wake.
And what we see here is that the, uh, structure is Wakefield, um, will actually be modified by the, uh, addition of this small beam pipe.
And so, uh, this code or the standard code of KSP Wakefield solver does not it's not sufficient to assess
the effects of beam loading in the muon collider cavities if we go with the enclosed design.
Um, so what I did to try and, uh, get around this issue was use the KSP solver, um,
where basically it mimics the, uh, the rigid live charge line charge approximation, uh, using a point source.
Um, and then, uh, I extended the pipes to remove any kind of edge effects.
I resolved those fields using the peak solver, and then I export it, uh, and solved with the Python post-processing code.
And so, uh, to validate this model, I used the same model from before with the pipe passing through a cavity because,
uh, these works for this model are trusted. They're just not relevant to the muon collider cavity.
Um, and so comparing for two different beta values,
we see perfect agreement between my post-processing processing code with peak and the, uh, Wakefield solver.
Uh, so to further validate the model, I checked these, uh, space charge weeks, uh,
using this smooth pipe, uh, approximation or using this smooth pipe geometry.
And what we see is that at small radii, when the, uh, bunch, uh, sorry, when the bunch bandwidth,
um, is below the, uh, fundamental frequency of the cavity, there's no excitations.
And so they agree perfectly. You can, uh, resolve that pure space charge wake.
But as the pipe radius increases and the, uh, frequency shifts into that bandwidth of the particle bunch,
what we see is that we get reflections from the, uh, open boundaries in the simulation.
Uh, and so we get deviation from what we'd expect. And so, uh, we'd have to, uh, moving forward.
Consider this when we are using certain lengths.
And so as a final attempt, there are my slides were, uh, not updating here or something coming out of there.
But basically the idea of what happened here is, um, to overcome this limitation.
What I did was I used the three segmented solution where I have, uh,
a bunch at the end of the pipe that enters to the cavity, and then I run a second simulation with the,
uh, the bunch passing through the cavity, and then a third simulation with the bunch passing, uh, to the end of the the exit pipe.
And then you add these fields together, uh, in time. And then you can use this to resolve the Wakefield's.
Um, and so here in this figure, what I've shown is two different figures or two different curves.
Uh, one is for the 1D rigid line charge approximation, um, where we see pretty substantial Wakefield.
So for a microphone bunch this would uh, uh, give volte or uh, gradients, uh, that are comparable to the operating gradient of the uh,
different uh, build or cavity, uh, requirements, um, on the order of like mega Volts.
And another benefit of using the Pete code is that I was able to actually use a 3D bunch with transverse size because,
uh, in the muon collider, well, very large bunch sizes.
And so what I've showed here is that, uh, the longitudinal way can actually be suppressed slightly,
uh, when considering the same bunch charge, uh, with this three dimensional, uh, distribution.
And so, uh, that is the conclusion of my studies. Uh, so the things we talked about here are, uh, I looked at, uh,
scattering studies to assess what requirements would be needed in terms of thickness for, uh, different materials.
And what we see is that the aluminum material needs to be about a quarter of the thickness of beryllium.
If we decided to use that as the, the enclosed or the thin then beam window.
Um, then we looked at, uh, some breakdown studies where I showed, uh,
cold copper has pretty strong breakdown resilience, especially at the, uh, significantly higher field.
Um, and also, we can improve our safe operating gradients if we, uh, assess, uh, lower post lengths or implement, uh, lower pulse lengths.
Uh, and for the Wakefield studies, I showed that CST Wakefield solver cannot properly resolve the weights if you have an enclosed geometry.
And so I use this peak method, uh, where we're anticipating order of megajoules per meter,
uh, uh, beam loading effects, which are comparable to the beam gradients.
And so some future plans that we could do is I didn't actually assess the surrounding vacuum space in my peak model.
And so that's something that can actually be, uh, looked into to see how this,
uh, change in the vacuum dimensions would impact, uh, the Wakefield's results.
Um, we can assess copper alloys, uh, like, uh, copper, silver, uh, to try to mitigate breakdown.
And also for all of the results in the, uh, breakdown studies, I was using a flat top approximation, uh, for the, um, for the RF pulse.
And so we could actually test more realistic RF pulses, uh, which could possibly change the effects.
Um, so before I send off here, I just want to give acknowledgment to some of the collaborators and the funding agencies and,
uh, past to you guys for questions. Thank you. So time for one quick question.
Hi. Um, I don't quite remember the slide, but I think, uh, in one of your studies, you've considered, um, 805 mega hertz for your RF cavity.
I was wondering, given that, like, um, the I.
As far as I remember, the RF cavities, uh, frequencies that are used in ionization cooling are three, 352MHz and 704MHz.
I was wondering what was the reason why? What was the motivation behind, uh, studying this higher frequency?
Yeah. So, uh, the European designs have been at, like you said, 325 and 725 or something like that.
Uh, previous, I think the map cavities or the most cavities were 8 or 5.
So I was going based off of those designs. Okay. Yeah. Uh, but for the it's worth noting that for the scattering studies, I used the, uh,
design frequencies that were considered for, um, the paper that you're referencing.
But for the later studies, for the Wakefield studies, it was just the 805 as a default.
Just. Yeah. Just because it was arbitrary decision. So.
Okay. Thank you. Anything else?
So let's thank our speaker again. Uh. So our next speaker is Doctor Zane Guy, who will be talking about me on pulling cavity.
Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Yeah.
My name is Harry from slack. Uh, talk about metaphysics approach for young character R&D.
Uh, so before I will talk about a little bit of history, our involvement in the Map program.
And also during the, uh, talk, I will show our, uh.
Okay. They also talk about our mighty physics, uh, capabilities.
So, uh, the hope is to not only show what we can contribute to the medium collider R&D.
And also, can I have your interested in using our code for your own research?
Um, so I'll give you a history. We participated in the In the Map program, basically in three cavity designs in the past.
So we just heard 805 is one of the frequencies of the choice for the muon cooling.
And also are low frequency cavities 201MHz cavity.
And so these cavities has to work on the strong magnetic field.
So the issues arise from these, uh, extreme conditions. Basically the field emission behavior will be changed.
My dependent behavior will be changed under these magnetic fields.
Um, so this is an emission of, uh, as, uh, 805 cavity.
Uh, that's, uh, the kind of shape is not that clear, but you can see the trajectory of the field emission electrons,
uh, when they emitted, even though the field of slippage, they may be stopped,
but they actually showed again by higher where the magnetic field focus this electron,
basically the electron follows the magnetic field line and end up with hitting the other side of the cavity.
So this electron, uh, energy can reach to mach, uh, what I believe.
So because the reader are seeing focusing and the amount of the particles that they are heating, that point is pretty high and can cause damage.
So this was happened actually, uh, after the high prioritizing of a pure Bose cavity, 805 megahertz.
And, uh, we noticed that the magnetic, sustainable, stable operating gradient drops as you increase the magnetic field.
And then after that, they they find that there's a scar, significant damage around the setting areas.
So this area actually corresponds to the high field regions where you can have a field emission.
And the one interesting thing is on the brilliant window, even though you have it actually feels, but that's no damage.
So depending on the material and the some material can sustain because the window is, uh, probably will pass through.
But on the copper part actually is produce damage.
So because these, uh, are challenges that we got involved, uh, using our Monte physics code.
The idea is to use, uh, our parallel massively, massively parallel code to digital analyzer effect.
And hopefully we can improve the design, mitigate the effects.
So and this code is we developed as slack over the last 30 years and started with RF only.
And then later on we added uh, other solver like a somewhat mechanical Monte packaging peak simulation.
And also we also added these uh, uh, kind simulation like a DC simulation.
So and also we keep improving these solvers, enhancing solvers and also adding more capabilities to these type of calls.
So, uh, the idea is to use these code to analyze the cavity underscore magnetic field.
And hopefully we can improve that. And they improve the, uh, stable operating gradient.
So the our first attempt on this, uh, cavity is to try to, uh, minimize the surface field.
So actually, uh, we changed that, uh, uh, to the copter location and also changes the local profiling of that geometry.
And we succeeded to, uh, to have a path to lower this, uh, surface field, uh,
at some readings, uh, significantly, uh, assist, uh, showing these red, uh, text.
But however, there are some other readings we cannot do because these readings correspond to the reading where you have these,
a brilliant window that, uh, amounted to these cavity.
You have these, uh, copper tube burning window conduction reading where you do have iris and you have a surface rounding.
And then that rounding part has a has a high electric field enhancement.
So, uh, after we done this, uh, optimization, we use our code.
I mentioned we can do mighty, mighty packaging analysis, which is our solver.
So in parallel, basically this solver tracks the particle in the RF and the external magnetic field and then find resonant trajectories.
And then uh, from there we analyze if that can cause the Monte packing.
So these kind of in uh, different geometries, like for example, showing here.
Uh, couple of examples. Uh, this. In a classical transmission like this.
A window cavity. And this is a typical superconducting cavity.
So all of these are fracture mesa part resonance trajectories.
But if these resonances has the energy that can produce more than one yield of secondary electrons, then you have a problem.
So we using this tool and then analyze this up optimize cavity.
And this is a comparison. On the left is the original design.
And different color labeling different regions that could support manufacturing.
And this is a new design. The blue part is from the window.
Which the window can sustain is that does not cause any issue.
But the most important ones are these different this purple and the red colors.
And the multiplexing happens where you have all the copper is like a below anywhere between 200.
You may to 1000 may not. Yeah from 100 couple of hundred away and to something.
Anyway. So again we reduce the packing uh possibilities significantly higher where we still have some bands that may support manufacturing.
So that's, that's for manufacturing part. And then we also do the uh for the emission calculation because this is under a very strong magnetic field.
And if you, the emission will go straight to the other side. And they and they, uh, deposit energy may cause damage.
So in this optimized design, we still see the, uh, for the emission, uh, could happen in the window region and also around the,
uh, uh, this disk region where we have a higher electric field because that the surrounding part has, uh, electric enhancement.
And also, uh, even we reduce the electric field around the copper.
And still there are some significant, uh, for the emission possibility.
So because of this, and we think, uh, there may be still problems with this optimized design,
so we end up with, you know, fabricate this cavity and then we move on to a different design.
Uh, so, uh, numerical modeling, uh, not only, uh, is it is a, it works like a, uh,
numerical prototyping, even though it does not replace all the physical prototyping.
But certainly you can reduce the number of, of having and end up saving cough and time.
So we didn't do that because we found that there are potential problems.
And we moved on to this a modular cavity. So the difference of this cavity and the one that we call pillbox cavity is the shape.
So because we noticed that the copper and also the, the uh, the window reading,
that's uh, you actually feel that you have means go away, totally remove those features.
And we have the window all the way so that the whole thing is, is a window.
And also we have the copter moved to the, uh, side of this cavity.
So you can see these copper. Now it's like a at the virtually zero electric field region, even though after you punch a hole, you have actually field.
So we put it this copper as a low electric field reading. And then the outer uh, boundary, this part will be copper and this will be window.
It could be brilliant window. Actually we use this cavity and then we call modular.
We basically bullet these window onto the cavity. We can replace the window with different material.
We can see the what kind of look we think we can achieve. So so this is a design change.
And uh so basically we remove we eliminated the uh, the one that we saw that you feel your hands means in the reading where you have copper and,
uh, so, uh, but we did too much packing this transducer impacting by far without magnetic field.
You have a reading will support, uh, resonant trajectories.
But this if you have a low, you'd actually field this typical manufacturing, typical marketing you will have, uh, impact energy is under 1000 anyway.
So, no, normally it does not cost that much damage.
You may clear up the surface and then end up with no more impact.
You afterwork and about for the field emission.
Actually, you, uh, once you have this, uh, high magnetic field, it's become the emission manufacture.
That manufacturing is not like a produced in fact, the secondary electron apart impact by its,
uh, producing emission emission electron when you have a high field.
So those are the things that are important which we should avoid.
But for this one, uh, after after we put, uh, from other fields,
actually the manufacturing also changed to this region because the electron follow this,
uh, the P field line so as to reduce the reading of matter packing and to either further suppress manufacturing in the real.
After testing, we actually coded these readings with a low secondary yield material so that
we kind of minimize potential manufacturing in this geometry if it's cavity.
So that's what we did actually. Not only that we also using a much much physics solver analyze the similar uh somewhat distribution,
although somewhat squares up on this window and also on the other cavity.
So this uh, analysis only included RFC 18.
Uh, at that time, we didn't have the solver to handle beam heating, but now we have a solver that can take the beam heating into consideration.
So we can really analyze the whole effect of the heating of the window in the cavity.
Uh, geometry buffer. These are the, the temperature uh, uh, gradient is, is small.
So it does not seem to be an issue. And then uh, cavity was the fabricated and then the half hour test was performed.
And if reported in this, uh, these paper.
Basically the whole cavity is, uh, put into a solenoid and the cavity sees a uniform solenoid field.
Uh, and, uh, there are some tests with, uh, brilliant window and also copper window.
So you can see that whenever we use a brilliant window with, with our magnetic field,
and then we can achieve very high gradient once we put, uh, this, uh, copper.
Uh, uh. Uh, anal plate.
And then we have issues, and we, we have a, uh, magnetic field.
So basically, for this cavity to work, it looks like we have to avoid copper type materials in high electric field region.
So that's what we learn from from the lab. But if we we we we say, can you repeat what you're saying?
So we have to avoid the copper type of material, uh, in the high electric field reading.
So because of that, this device I just showed, um, uh, there's no, uh, the field here is very small.
And then these are this is the copper, and these are windows that will want to test once we put a copper window here,
and then either one side to side and then the gradient drops significantly.
But if you have beryllium no problem. Why not. We have 40 mile per meter gradient.
So that's a big difference. Yeah that's what we learned from this.
Okay. So this is a cavity. Uh, and also uh, for the solver we also developed uh, additional features.
For example, we can handle radiation for heating. Uh, for materials.
So this is, uh, BIM dump simulation for this tool.
So, and the basically, we took a flow car, uh, those map and then convert into the beam heating, and then we evaluate and optimize.
This beam dump is showing the thermal distribution also stress distribution.
So, uh, that's a new feature we added to the solver.
I think uh, uh, these can also be used for a million times and a million, uh, beam loss interaction with the materials.
So those kind of things. And also we have uh, integrate well, integrating uh, also over with the game for which is a radiation other radiation code.
So basically we can, uh, track uh, through the emission, uh, particles.
And then when they hit the material and produce radiation.
So in the radiation can scatter back into the particles, into the, our field.
So we can track that. So this integration allows us to simulate effect of the field emission and also radiation due to the field emission.
So this this uh feature can also be helpful when we study the, the muon cooling channel where you do have, uh, particles hitting the surfaces.
And also we, uh, also, uh, for the, uh, better experience of the user.
We, we implemented, uh, we integrated with another called Lumi and the which Lumi has, uh,
a generic, uh, optimizer there, and they integrate with our simulation code so we can,
uh, help the user to, uh, do, uh, optimizations, uh, through this integration, not only optimization, sometimes you want to have a parameter scan.
So basically, this, uh, workflow will make it easier to setup, and then you can achieve, uh, uh, the final solution quickly through this is a process.
Uh, the other thing is that we also working on developing our source, uh, simulation code.
Uh, basically, we have a lot of, uh, solvers already existed in our code.
So we are integrating them together, improve the beam transportation,
and also improve the noise so that we can simulate class client and also, uh, other power sources.
So here at the bottom was showing that, uh, uh, that, uh, this is a difficult people generation.
And this is uh, uh, under off, uh, control the great the human for these out.
So these are under development hopefully will be useful for, uh, for future uh, uh, after us, uh uh, R&D.
And of course, this has a lot of skill capability enable us to look for exotic shapes and also novel, uh, design concepts here.
Actually, the previous speaker mentioned in this, uh, cover scratcher.
Uh, so this is like a parallel new structure using parallel fields.
And they, uh, actually, uh, that is to, uh, work at the code temperature.
These can be closely applicable 2 million Collider, uh, quickly R&D.
And uh, so basically we can simulate, uh, very large, uh, volume, uh, cavities with, uh, high fidelity.
So this give us not only, uh, high precision, uh, uh, modeling, but also quick turnaround.
For example, 64 million you feed, we can get a result within maybe ten, 20 minutes, uh, running on supercomputers.
But if we run single computer, I don't think that you have enough memory. But if you write, may run many, many days for some of these problems.
Um, so. And all these, uh, uh, solvers work, uh, um, uh, massively parallel computer.
Typically we, we perform simulation at Nersc, but we can also can be installed on clusters where you have more CPUs.
Uh, you can use that. But here is showing that over the years the hardware actually accelerated the speed.
And also the software actually the speed. So basically we are getting better and better, not only large problem size but also turnaround time.
So as a convolution, uh, we have uh, SVP uh, suite of tools that has built, uh,
a broad range of capabilities for RF design optimization that could be beneficial to,
um, we are quite R&D, and the better than that is because we own these code.
We developed these code.
We can add more features if that, uh, new, uh, simulation modeling requirement, we can add to these code and then to, uh, to further advance our R&D.
Uh, I think what we can contribute, uh, first thing we can contribute to, uh, RF modeling, numerical prototyping, uh,
by optimizing the cavity heating, uh, issues, uh, and also as slack, we also, uh, uh, plan to do, uh, high forecasting.
I am I will I will talk about combination of the this multi physics tool and
hyper testing gave us a unique capability to contribute to the new collider R&D.
So thank you for uh. So one quick question before we break for lunch.
So you showed a slide that had, uh, optimization parameters.
Um, yeah. I'm curious about, uh, is there a limitation on ACP for how many, um, parameters it can handle before it comes to a solution?
Because I noticed in like CST they have an optimization, but you can only add like I think 3 or 2 before.
So that's that's probably that's a reality because the more parameters give you is much more complex.
Yeah. But in terms of solver, that's I don't think that's a limitation because we are using these Lumi.
They have these generic optimization tools in there.
So in principle yes we can have them all parametrized.
But in reality the optimization probably you can refine your competition tool, uh number of parameters that you can use.
Okay. Yeah. So there are some yeah.
The solver has no limitation. But uh, to achieve the optimized result, maybe you have to put more sales.
Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Thank you. So let's thank the speaker again.
And. So we break for lunch.
