# AM:  Detectors and Instrumentation R&D: Parallels

I hope that everyone got themselves warmed up in the coffee break, and is ready to dive back in into the FaceTiming and sensor R&D.
So welcome to the session. I'll started right off with a bit of an overview.
Um, maybe going back into some more technical details on the laggards as a whole and then followed by some
other technical presentations also going towards on detection and calorimetry underlay team timing,
um, further towards the session. So I'm actually not presenting all too much with details of my own work.
So I'm summarizing, um, what many groups have been working on in the recent years and decades, including, uh, UC Santa Cruz, um, Berkeley,
National labs like Fermilab, Brookhaven National Lab, of course, also European groups, for example, um and Torino, uh Ljubljana and and others.
So, um, broadly speaking, um Logan avalanche diodes have quite an evolution over the past years.
What we're going to see in the future, including possibly the muon collider, is, on the other hand,
a bit of a paradigm shift from having a dedicated separate timing layer as opposed to a pixel and strip tracking,
as we will have, um, for the high Lumi LHC upgrades for Atlas and CMS.
Instead, for future colliders, we envision to have more of actual 4D or even 5G tracking.
So having time and capabilities in a precision tracking detector or vice versa,
adding more spatial resolution capabilities to our fast type of sensors.
So what, um, what do we actually have in terms of sensor technology?
Some of these were already shown. So our standard Ela guide is essentially just, um, uh, DC coupled silicon sensor with a gain layer.
Um, the more established variants are um, ACL got so will cover those in his talk in more detail.
Also trench isolation then going to um, to some more recent efforts, um,
for the integration of a deeper gain layer or a gain layer in the industrial process.
So deep junction delegate and CMOs and some more or less seen um, sensor technologies in the high energy physics realm,
for example, does AI or inverted laggards have been, um, relatively prevalent actually in, um, photon science?
And there are also some efforts to fabricate laggards into other semiconductor materials.
So not just silicon. Um, efforts are underway for silicon carbide, as was shared by the previous speaker.
And um, recently, funding was also granted to explore the implementation of an elegant in diamond and some factors to be considered.
So again, we can think of this a bit through the lens of a muon collider.
Um, what's the radiation hardness that's required.
So for silicon sensors of course, that's always a big question or at least has been what are our, um, performance requirements or aspirations, um,
for time high resolution resolution, for spatial resolution, also for energy,
um, and more, let's say technical issues such as what does the fill factor?
What's the, um, efficiency we need? Um, also things like cost or being able to produce these at scale and what the primary
purpose of the 4D tracking or what the fast timing is going to be used for.
So of course, heavily depending on the, um, collider or the experiment.
So is this timing detector.
As for the high Lumi, the LHC primarily for rejecting pile up and improving reconstruction or retaining reconstruction performance?
Um, is it an essential component of the entire tracking and reconstruction?
Um, or is it, um, maybe more towards the lower energies, especially leaning more towards particle I.D.?
So these are some, um, things to keep in mind. So starting off first with radiation hardness.
So this was of course the big driver for um or is still for the high luminosity LHC.
Um elegant developments. And overall, this was, um, the main challenge for silicon sensors overall.
So, um, some benchmarks were, um, for the innermost pixel layers on the order of uh, 2014 Newton equivalent per square centimeter for the LHC.
And then up to 2016, in the pixel layers for the phase two upgrades.
So this um, 15 was hired. Two is 16, um, was more or less the highest level of fluence that um, anyone was targeting.
So, um, to add this, this is for Atlas and CMS.
So this has been perhaps the main showstopper against using maps or monolithic active pixel sensors as opposed to,
for example, the Atlas experiment and the flexible it's three upgrade that's, um, very often shown nowadays.
So again, this is going to make quite a big shift for anything in the future after high luminosity LHC developments.
So any lepton colliders influences will be returning essentially to the LHC levels or even below.
Um, as might be shown again in more and more detail.
But um, for example, the electron ion collider, which is candidate nuclear physics, we're talking about orders of um, ten to the power of 13.
Perhaps if we approximate in a very conservative way and with extra leeway.
So on the other hand, of course, as you know, material budget and spatial resolution are far more important.
On the other hand, um, towards a potential future FCC hadron Collider, possibly also for muons,
um, there is fundamental R&D ongoing to drive these fluence is to the more extreme.
So on E17 results have been shown at RG 50 and D three workshops.
And um, just last week there was an email for an irradiation campaign of one um 118 per square centimeters.
So this I would not discard this yet, but it moves to a very far, um,
future compared to the high la mer legacy work and specifically towards l got some of you might have seen these.
So this is essentially the scaling, um, of radiation damage and typical.
So the consensus and the main, um, damage mechanisms or what happens when sensors get irradiated.
So the leakage current density increases more or less um linearly here with logarithmic axis of the fluence.
And um we also have compensation of uh the doping in the bulk.
So traditionally this has been always quantified through this leakage current here.
Um so they could try an increasing um depletion voltage.
Also this so-called type inversion. And this is all focused on non-ionizing energy loss, um, scaled back to the neutrons.
And that's why you may be accustomed to hearing neutron equivalent, um, centimeter square, uh, fluence for laggards.
This is not the most relevant definition. Um, yes, this will still happen.
So it is a silicon sensor. This, um, you will still have increased leakage currents, but this has not been, um,
a very high focus of study because this has been has been thoroughly investigated for the, for the um LHC, um, tracking sensors.
So this is still going to be present and going to very high clearances.
Don't forget about it. But um, for elegance we would primarily use something different.
And that is um, how our central aspect of that look at some of the gain brought on by the game there,
how that changes as a function of irradiation and also all factors that were related to a scaling.
So radiation with different particles scaled back to the neutron equivalent.
These do not apply. So what actually happens in an elegant in a game there.
So this is also true then for any elegant essentially all of them, all of the different structure variants, they will have a game there.
So the same um issue will be encountered everywhere.
So now showing this in a capacitance versus voltage plot.
So what happens here as a function of neutron irradiation. Two things acid.
So the number of defects in the bulk increase the depletion voltage of the bulk goes up.
At the same time however we are losing active doping in the game there.
So both happen at the same time and they might be seen as somewhat contradictory.
So this can be addressed to some extent by just engineering the layer itself or the defects.
For example, how much doping, how much doping you put into the game layer, what the concentration is,
how deep it is in the ballpark, and some other interesting, um, material science or defect engineering,
for example, actually, um, substituting the normal standard P-type, um, foreign dopant by a gallium,
this was prototype in the early R&D stage for CMS, at least, um, with not so much success.
On the other hand, another experiments so co doping that came with carbon,
so preventing the dislocation of boron from um substitutional to interstitial.
This has been um, very successful. And this is the path towards or for the high luminosity LHC.
Look at sensors. So this has been more or less identified as a requirement for them to reach the desired radiation hardness.
Um, currently studies are also um being done on so-called partially activated boron.
So including um more boron in the game there than is electrically active.
And that can be adjusted over time, so to speak. So um, this there's been some efforts, um, by Italian groups also from Japan.
Um results. I would at this point call them still non conclusive.
This also depends quite a bit on the vendor.
So who has actually manufactured those sensors. And um exactly what's what can there to.
So for the muon collider, I would assume, or we would have to go back to the charts from from yesterday,
how significant radiation damage or impact we would expect on any silicon sensor with a gain there.
Um, turning a bit towards spatial and timing resolution.
So this is of course also related to the fill factor. The main issue here for um, the LHC got sensors is the standard.
So we have that gain layer here. Um, this has a very high electric field at the edges which needs to be terminated with that additional implant.
And then we still need to actually separate the electrodes from each other.
So we have additional space here at the edge from um the termination extension and from isolation.
So piece by piece stop. So that of course does reduce the fill factor somewhat and limits the pad size to which one can, um, feasibly go.
So again, for Atlas and CMS, I'd call them purposefully pads and not pixels because we talk about 1.3mm square.
So, um, these are not overly concerned.
Um, as I said, this is a separate detector outside the tracker volume.
So these are not actually that concerned with, um, spatial resolution.
And for future colliders from that point, we want actual 4D tracking.
This calls for a different sensor variant for part of the output.
And so hence um, the ACL guide for example, isn't being brought up um, for timely resolution.
Um, which as I covered this very, very well.
So here we have an interplay not just from the sensors but from many other factors as well, including your timing corrections.
Um, but this has been essentially, um, driven down, um, quite a bit by, by using,
uh, thinner sensors, for example, to reduce some of those activations here.
Um, so for fill factor, we have a couple of options. And more importantly, what like I will be covered.
So, um, I would say that the approach for ACL guides versus so-called transom trench installation.
Essentially here, um, instead of, um, changing the termination of the game there between pads, we, we simply get rid of it.
So we have one entire game there, um, one common and plus electrode, one common, um, installation here.
And then the signal charge is competitively coupled to the electrodes, on the other hand,
and trends in trench installation, instead of isolating pads electrically, the silicon is etched physically.
So with the gas phase process, um, and that trench can be then filled with a the electric or polysilicon are left open.
And um, hence this trench can actually be made much more narrow.
So to the order of a few microns as opposed to the termination extension and a pit stop.
So both of these can be just skipped here. Um, one word of caution.
So the ACL guides, um, as they've been um, we know now these actually combine two different things.
So these combine both, um, the resistive end layer and the AC coupling.
That is a choice. So the AC coupling does not necessarily have to be done.
So you can simply go for that resistive and layer. And um still use the extrapolation of charge sharing.
Um, but save some of the trouble with the um competitively coupled signal and the undershoot in the electronics.
On the other hand, trans trench isolation does not care for either of these.
Here. It is more of, um, a technology readiness and, um, a process scaling question.
So similar to 3D sensors. Um, here you need to balance out the density of the trenches with respect to the wafer thickness.
So you can't just etch most or everywhere through, um, your sensor without actually risking some stability.
And then finally, um, so moving like that or that, um, gain there.
And so the consensus towards industrial processes. So, um, most importantly, um, why not put this over?
Why not simply instead of messing around with the terminations, with AC coupling?
Um, why not integrate just an additional process steps into the process, step into silicon CMOs.
Why not just integrated layer here? So this has actually been, um, remarkably successful already.
Uh, in a prototype driven by the University of Geneva in Switzerland with their so-called pico detector.
This is an however, this is a silicon germanium process with a very specific foundry,
and this has taken them also, um, a great deal of effort to actually get this established.
And I think I will also mention that there are some beginning efforts, um,
for industrial scale manufacturing here in the U.S., um, as a joint project that Fermilab and Slack.
And, um, from Santa Cruz. What has been proposed is the so-called deep Junction El God.
So again, we go back to a uniform game there, but that is much deeper in the ballpark.
So safely removed from the high electric fields here at the surface.
So again, we can just have a more or less 100% fill factory.
We don't need the termination extension.
And this will also be more resistant to any, um um, any effects the radiation would have on or irradiation would have on the surface of the sensor.
Um, the challenge here is a bit similar. That's why I'm grouping them together.
Um, as for, um, a seamless process with the game layer.
So, um, being able to actually find a vendor who would be willing to provide this process were developed for high energy physics has been,
um, fairly challenging. So even though, um, 3D integration or wafer to wafer bonding, these are not new methods by any chance.
Um, on an industrial scale. But, um, for high energy physics to actually, um, um, be able to make that happen.
Um, this has taken quite a while. I'm optimistic that that's proceeding.
Um, now in the next few years. So, um, bring this back towards, um, the muon collider.
So for baseline requirements, aspirations.
So, um, just looking at the tables that were shown yesterday.
So neither the spatial resolution nor timing resolution requirements are actually all that straight.
So 30 to 30 to 60 picoseconds timing. Um that is achieved with the normal with the ACL or with the normal DCL that's developed first time as an atlas.
This is already being shown and especially, um, assuming higher radiation levels than normal colliders.
Um expected to face. So in itself these numbers are nowhere near, um attainable.
Um. So and as was mentioned. So, um, having 40 trekking is of course very tempting or.
Um, is actually required for, for our analysis. But, um, now echoing, uh, Tilman who likes to point this out and I quite agree with him.
Um, this is all very nice to do in software later on.
So apply our time in cuts or apply it. Um, um, scale down the occupancy.
Um, select what you're trigger on or stream out.
Um, some perhaps in the near future.
We're also able to do some of this on detector, but keep in mind that the sensor itself will still experience the full environment.
You can try and do your cuts later, but the sensor will always see all of these, um, before any of that math is done.
And so this comes fairly close.
Um, I don't know if there are exact numbers, um, to show this, but this already almost rules out all the resistive silicon detectors.
So they're sharing charges across the sensor through the end plus layer.
And this will not do well in a higher occupancy environment.
Even if you later on calculate the occupancy down or would try to calculate it um, based on the timing code.
So overall, um, what I would say or um, as some food for thought, I would consider here the bigger picture and also those um,
operational constraints like what is the availability of your process if you want to do an CMOs.
Um, for also again, for all the laggards, how is the uniformity when the sensors are fabricated at larger scale?
Um, now we talk about large when we mentioned around two centimeters.
So anyone who has done silicon strip sensors would laugh at that. That is not large scale.
Um, but the uniformity, for example, of the game layer implant, um, over um, even a centimeter scale is um,
and again, a pretty significant impact on the performance or the uniformity of performance of the sensor.
And, um, again, sort of prioritize what is the real, um, critical requirement.
Is that the timing resolution? Is it the spatial resolution?
Um, would you have some layers, perhaps the outer ones that we have time and capabilities, or are they needed in all layers?
Um, what is um, the what are the radiation levels?
Also, what is the gradient across both the sensor and, um, as we go to, um, to outer layers.
Um, and so specify that further, um, and simulate, um, the actual signal generation and digitization of your signal in the sensor.
Um, in order to select or develop, um, the optimal technology.
Oh, and one more addition. So perhaps a further discussion.
Um, the Bell two experiment or the Bell two detector at Superkick B in Japan is also, um, undergoing upgrades in the near future.
So, um, this detector has to set, um, pixels in the inner in our vertex and pixel detector and then the drift chamber outside.
So this drift chamber is likely going to be, um, retreating its inner layers or essentially upgrade.
These will be left out because it's becoming close to an operable.
And the inner layer is due to just higher backgrounds. So this frees up space that is not currently used.
And of course, um, removing those layers, um, cuts into the particle I.D. capabilities fairly significantly.
So, um, my colleague Peter Lewis has had an idea, so could we actually add a fast timing time of flight detector layer, um, to fill to.
And what would this do? So there are some very first, um, tests being done and, and were presented at a, at an internal meeting.
So if we assume, let's say 30 picoseconds timing a resolution, again, nothing even too revolutionary for our current guides.
This would allow um, particle I.D. and especially muon um identification to very low momenta, um, and um,
increase the available luminosity for many, um, low key track analysis by, um, several tens of percent.
Um, whether this could be included or replacing the triggering role of the drift chamber.
Um is a question and also Bell to I would say is the experiment currently with the most prominent beam backgrounds so soft um,
photons and A plus B minus.
So for the muon collider, for um, those of you who are getting involved in that, um, I would be interested to hear your opinions,
um, on whether, if this detector would be developed and deployed, if this could also be, um, useful information for future.
And then with the picture of our campus.
Thank you for your. And we started a little bit late.
I can take maybe one question. Other than that, um, please reach out to me by email so I have to leave soon.
Um, I'm in any case. Glad to have been there. And thank you everyone for the really nice workshop.
Just a quick question about the bill to ideally and there what's the intended pixel
pitch for the time of flight layer that you want to add to the belt or detector?
Okay. Okay. Um, also, else we will all have to.
So. A nursing assistant will only have a second time in the barrel.
So me something I did not spend like.
These are my favorite pieces. That's exactly what.
Um. How much? Thanks.
I think that we can have the next. I hope this works in the clicker or fetch.
All right. Uh. Good morning. Good afternoon everyone.
Thanks for having me. This will be another talk on the series of timing detectors.
It will be somewhat complementary to, uh, the the rest of the talk you saw is some of the material that unavoidably will be repeated in my talk.
Um. Uh, Jenny. Um, Christian.
And, uh, there were many other talks before. Um, but I'll try to cover some of the aspects that were not in the previous, uh, material.
So, okay, so, uh, you know, um, colliders, uh, of course, promised us to get to this,
uh, new kind of, uh, worlds that we are seeking to find the new physics.
Uh, so we are really trying to break the frontiers of science.
And, uh, usually this is done by utilizing new technologies which, uh,
fast timing and fast timing capital detectors are one of the technologies that we hope will help us to break through this, uh, barrier.
Um, and, uh, there are many, uh, exciting areas of developments that are kind of helping us on this way.
Uh, new materials and technologies for sensing, uh, ultra low mass materials for mechanical supports, high precision timing position.
And those are measurements across the detectors of the these collider experiments.
Uh, AIML processing, um, on the front end especially.
But generally in all parts of it, actors are another paradigm shifting, uh, developments that we are implementing now.
Um, and all of that, we are hoping to develop, uh, towards this, uh, colliders for the future, uh, experiments.
Uh, and there is a lot more on that on Christian's talk. Uh, I think earlier today.
Um, so I won't go into this too much, uh, because it was already covered before, uh, generally, uh, for, um,
Collider, it seems to be that the target, uh, timing resolution is of the order of 20 to 30 picosecond.
Uh, the better, of course. Uh, uh, the higher impact will be, uh, but there are trade offs there as well.
But generally we are kind of working towards having and there is a little bit more,
a lot more detail in, uh, enhancing our talk here, uh, on various pixelation and pixel sizes.
But that's kind of the target, uh, target, uh, performance that we're seeking.
Uh, you've seen this, uh, slide before. Uh, the CMS Atlas and CMS detectors are building the first generation of this, uh,
timing, uh, capable, high precision, high, high precision timing chemical detectors.
Uh, and they are, uh, paving the way, uh, but they are, uh, sort of limited in a way that they are very coarse detectors and they are,
uh, not providing really high, uh, position reconstruction together with timing reconstruction.
Uh, so that's kind of, uh, the way forward. It seems to be that we will get to this five d kind of paradigm,
that we will measure everything with very high precision, including position and timing and energy.
Uh, so the breakthrough on this, uh, direction has been the development of these low gain avalanche diodes.
Jenney. Just cover that, uh, extensively in the talks. I won't go into that too much.
Uh, but kind of the main takeaways, uh, are that we demonstrated for, uh,
LHC applications that we can get to about 30 picosecond, uh, timing resolution across different vendors.
Uh, and, uh, these curves are different radiation levels. So these last curves are basically, uh, the LHC end of life radiation levels, uh,
ten to the 15, a few times ten to the 15 neutron, uh, Florence's per square centimeter.
And uh, Matsu and SDK, both of them are able to produce.
And there are other vendors actually developed over the years that can do a pretty good, uh, kind of,
uh, following, uh, on that, there is, uh, more, uh, kind of, uh, system level development of that.
So that was just sensors.
And we are now also able to, uh, develop this even further, uh, to actually demonstrate on the image that's I covered this in this talk,
uh, where we are now, considering that for LHC applications, the sensors and basic developments are done.
Uh, and we are now basically building the detector. And this plot demonstrates that the time resolution achieved with, uh,
sensor plus the front end electronics, uh, is basically very similar to this is, uh, the system level.
This is sensor along with some dedicated electronics.
Uh, we are basically able to measure the same performance or very close to the same performance, uh, when we integrate these things together.
So that's kind of a milestone, that, uh, incredible milestone that has been achieved.
Uh, and now we are working basically to build that, uh, detectors to, to implement, uh, this is, uh, plot that shows,
uh, the matrix of the ASI plus, uh, sensor for CMS, uh, and this is, uh, time resolution in each bin.
And then there's a histogram that kind of collapses that into one dimension.
And you see that it's a very narrow histogram. And we have about 35 picosecond time resolution achieved across the whole surface of this.
Particular chip. Uh, okay. So what's next?
Uh, kind of on the timeline, if we follow the kind of developments that we are having right now.
Uh, is the, uh, the next, uh, timing detected that is coming up is the application for, uh, EIC for epic experiment at the IC.
Uh, I highlight here the battle of, uh, there is a similar one for the time of flight.
And these are detectors that we're trying to achieve, uh, about, uh, 30 to 40 picosecond time resolution.
And, uh, they will be have pixel with L guides. It will have pixel detectors in the end.
So very similar to CMS and Atlas detectors.
And then the barrel it will have a uh novel application will have a strip l got sensors and strips will be this ACL.
Got sensors that Jenny was just talking about. So that will be the first application of three polygons on, uh, in experiment.
Uh, Jenney, just cover this, uh, very, uh, exhaustively, so I won't go into details there.
Uh, there is, uh, several rounds that have been produced over, uh, recent years.
Uh, and just one thing to highlight here, I think, is that, uh, these developments benefited a lot from HLA,
LHC and are also now kind of benefiting from the synergies between the HPP and nuclear physics,
which I think is another kind of, uh, uh, uh, important, I think,
theme to take away that a lot of these developments are synergistic across areas, and we kind of benefit, uh, when working with each other.
Um, so, uh, including development itself, but then also the characterization and the development of the detectors for the,
uh, in this case, nuclear physics obligation is borrowing a lot.
For example, electronics, uh, front end electronics, uh, sensors are, uh,
very closely following the CMS developments, uh, or electronics, uh, borrowed from CMS,
um, and this, that sensors, this ECL got sensors demonstrated uh, for, uh, strip sensors here we show, um, about 35 picosecond, uh, time resolution.
Uh, this is, uh, a scan across, uh, the sensors, uh, x direction and, uh, gray areas are the strips themselves.
So we with 500 micron, uh, pitch, uh, which is really a large pitch, uh, we are able to achieve, uh, 15 to 20 micron position resolution.
Uh, and the strips themselves are one centimeter long, so it's pretty long.
So it's very good to cover low, uh, with low power to cover very large areas with strip.
So we have, uh, uh, 1520 micron position, uh, 30 to 35 picosecond, uh, time resolution on strips and about 20 picosecond,
actually for pixels, if we make the sensors relatively thin, in this case, it's about 30, uh, micron.
Um, okay. So then, uh, how we, uh, extract that information from the sensors, uh, out is to develop, uh, dedicated electronics.
So one of the kind of new developments also towards the future applications is development of new architectures,
new solutions to have low power, uh, and simpler device detectors.
So one of them is, uh, is, uh, CFD based, uh, async, uh, CFD stands for constant fraction discriminator,
uh, which unlike uh, all other readout chips for algos uh requires no type of correction.
So basically you get the output which you know, table correction is this dependance on the amplitude, uh, of the signal.
Uh, so this, this device does uh, that basically the algorithm is implemented on, on the front end.
So you don't need any complicated, uh, data readout or any complicated corrections of line,
which is especially useful when you have hundreds of millions of pixels in the future.
Detectors. Uh, so we demonstrate that this, uh, detectors can get to about ten picosecond jitter.
That's this plot down here.
And there were several developments of this, uh, and one of them is, uh, developed for A-Class trip sensors, uh, with, uh, very large capacitance.
Uh, and the target was to basically extract this performance that I just showed you before,
about 35 picoseconds of to extract that this, uh, as high fidelity as possible.
So that's the there was a test beam campaign in DC very recently in July.
This is, uh, uh, the A6 that was uh, developed, uh, and submitted in the earlier this year and then tested in the test beams.
And the results are, uh, very good.
We are able to achieve about 36 picosecond time resolution for these huge, uh, capacitors, detectors, uh, with, uh, very low power, uh,
similarly for the pixilated region of the, uh, uh, of the EIC detector, uh,
there is an application that is borrowing from Atlas, uh, timing detector Atlas EGI.
So this is a modified version of the Altera, uh, with the smaller pixels.
Uh, for uh, Atlas is, uh, 1.3mm square pixels.
So here it's 500 micron pixels. Uh, and the measurements have been, uh, the device has already gone through, uh, it's called the A0.
It's gone through, uh, several iterations. Now is on is one, uh, stage of submission and two will be the final version.
And the results so far are, uh, following kind of the expectations, uh, that they will meet power.
And. Uh, and timing resolution, uh, requirements.
Um, the next level, I would say for the, uh, kind of, uh, the integration or development supports.
Thank you for that. Uh, for the future. Are these monolithic active pixel sensors, uh, which the the advantage here is to take,
uh, commercial, seamless processes and apply them to development of particle detectors.
They're usually used for imagers, but, uh, in principle, they could be applied for also particle detection.
And there are many developments there. I, uh, won't have time to go through all of that.
Uh, one of the most impressive one, I would say, is these developments for the monolith project.
Uh, which is shown here, uh, where they achieve this University of, uh, Geneva, uh, centered development.
Uh, and uh, is using silicon germanium based, uh, electronics.
Uh, so there are some questions there about the radiation tolerance in extremely high radiation fields.
But the results are, uh, nonetheless extremely impressive. About 13 picosecond, uh, to 25.
So it kind of varies through the pixels area, but with very small pixels able to extract very high, uh, position, uh, and timing, um, information.
And the similarly, there is a cactus project that achieves about, uh, 60 picosecond resolution in beam.
Uh, another big uh, international project is Arcadia, uh, led by and n and this,
uh Asics are developed for several uh for these sensors are developed for several applications in, uh, different experiments.
Um, so and the radical is subdivided into various, uh, pieces, which are each for, uh, its own kind of, uh,
optimized for its own application for at least three of the thinking needs to apply for the time of flight,
which has about 20 picosecond resolution requirement.
So what they did is to apply this Arkadia, uh, architecture to enhance it with a game layer, uh, and basically benefit from, uh,
fully depleted sensors that can allow for fast charge collection and a and for about, uh, a gain of five, uh, 5 to 20 in that range.
Uh, so there has been a few iterations of that, uh, we just saw it went through, uh, naturally through some,
uh, kind of development, uh, stages where initially things were not working so good.
But the last version, uh, I actually think, I think a much improved, uh, results.
You can see how the percent efficiency. These are the pixel efficiency maps.
So the pixel diffusers are very good, and then they are, uh, they're able to in a very recent has been.
So again, I kind of wanted to highlight that these that this there are a lot of results that are coming kind of all the time.
So there is certainly in this talk already uh, uh results that was uh,
kind of chips are submitted last year or early this year and we get them already now.
So it's a fast paced development kind of, uh, environment. And we get about 70 to 80 because like can time resolution and uh, some of these, uh,
kind of there are some optimizations that need to be done that we believe the next version of will have, uh, improved results.
Uh, and then kind of to, uh, closed off the kind of the next, uh, I think, uh, frontier is to the 3D integrated, uh,
sensors, uh, which, uh, uh, we are involved in the project, uh, which is a collaboration of fermilab's like, and LLNL.
And the goal is here to basically follow the industry, which is, uh, uh, the state of the art is, uh,
really to do the, uh, 3D integration of, uh, sensors and various levels of front end electronics.
You can and a recent example is this newest, uh, Nikon, uh, cameras that implement, uh,
stacked, uh, stacked kind of imagers with, uh, you can see what, what else is on the stack.
So there is this new development between these labs to design, uh, the sensors that will follow kind of this,
uh, industry, uh, and aim to have, uh, excellent position and time resolution.
So this project is partnering, uh, there is more detail again at the link at the top.
Uh, we are here partnering for basically make, uh, sensor in the 12 inch wafer with tower semiconductors.
Uh, you know, 65 nanometer CMOs process. This will be the first will got, uh, produced on 12 inch wafers.
Uh, so the radical design is complete, and we are working our, uh, review with the tower to go through the all the design rule checks.
Uh, and this will be produced towards the end of the year.
There are various, uh, cells that are included here, both the CAC and the, uh, junction kind of guide.
So we will have a variety of sensors to explore and understand the designs.
Uh, and this will be coupled with an AC, which will be this, uh, second layer on the 3D stack.
Uh, so we have two, uh, rounds of submissions on this project.
Uh, we already produced, uh, and this is done in TSMC 28 nanometer project, uh, node.
Uh, so we already produced uh, first round of uh, Asics and uh, achieved excellent results to TDC about ten picosecond.
We understood the few issues that is getting fixed in the second version and the uh, uh, six picosecond TDC is the target on the, uh, production.
And for the analog part, we were able to extract about 20 picosecond time resolution, uh, which is again.
Uh, some of the issues that are understood here are, uh, being ported into the next version, which is our final, uh, uh, uh, part of this, uh,
this is a matrix of 100 by 100 pixels with 50 microns square, uh, which will be then bonded to this tower, uh, produced, uh, uh, all good sensors.
Uh, so this will be the first demonstration of, uh, l got bomb bonded to the rock.
Uh, and we are aiming to have that by the end of the early next year.
End of this year, and then the next phase phase of this project will be to have the truly wafer to wafer bonding of 12 inch L got and 12 inch,
uh, acid wafers.
Okay, so this is just a small sampling of all the exciting areas that I think will enrich the physics potential of the muon collider experiments.
There are many technologies, uh, many of them covered in various talks.
Uh, and I think, uh, kind of the accumulation of all those will have an unprecedented impact on the future, uh, of the HPP.
Uh, and I think we need to support and enhance our capabilities to these designs and developers,
because I think really, that's that's the key to make breakthroughs in the, uh, future colliders.
And just, uh, another highlight I would like to make is that many of these are synergistic with other thrust in Hep nuclear physics,
dark matter, astrophysics, many others. So, uh, it really helps to work together, uh, across all these areas.
Thank you. Thanks, Arthur, and especially thanks for highlighting, um, the synergistic, um, developments and working together, especially for nuclear.
Sure. Um, one quick question or comment from the audience.
Thanks. Thank you for the really nice update on all of the status and progress that's been going on in this space.
Um, I think it's super clear on the sensor side, right, that we can get, uh,
you know, high granularity, good spatial resolution and good precision timing.
It's less clear to me on the front end electronic side.
And I also we haven't seen, you know, an I'll get phase detector built yet.
Is there anything that we can learn from previous time of flight detectors, um,
or even designing and kept timing layer about system level challenges or
limitations that we should take into account when thinking about timing at a new,
um, Collider. I, I guess they're, uh.
It's a difficult question to answer briefly. Yeah, but there is many there are many developments that we are learning now already from the Eagle CMS,
which is kind of a pretty high precision timing detector already. It's, uh, order of a few tens of picoseconds on a different kind of particles.
But so the system level has been kind of implemented there, which is complicated.
You need to continuously monitor and stabilize it. I guess we will learn a lot more with the NTL.
Um, it's being built now, so I, uh, it's hard to say what the exactly the lessons will be.
They were all they learned. A lot of lessons, uh, of building these detectors and making the QC and actually making so many modules that will be,
uh, at the spec, uh, for so many.
But I think, uh, uh, maybe we can have a more detailed discussion or session on that.
I, I, we are continuously learning. I maybe, maybe that's what I can say.
Uh, on the SC level, you're right. The hardest thing at the moment, I think is the sensors, I think are kind of in a good shape.
Uh, from the other perspective, we can do them the biggest, I think, challenges on the A6, uh, part,
which is why I was trying to highlight that there's new architectures and new approaches to design.
Maybe new materials are, uh, one of the ways that we'll get to really make it, because with finer pixels, the power consumption really explodes.
So we really need to control that. That's, I think, the biggest challenge. Thanks.
Sorry. Thanks again. Patrick. Thank you. And we move on to measurements.
Please go ahead. Okay. Uh, thanks to the organizers for allowing me to speak on this topic.
It's going to be different than what you've been hearing. I won't be talking about timing detectors or even for 40 tracking.
I will talk about some kind of tracking, but, uh,
my main messages here are to talk about the need at a muon collider experiment for forward muon detection, and also on measuring the luminosity.
And these are just some conceptual slides and some, uh, preliminary results done along with some,
uh, undergraduate students and my graduate student, uh, along these lines.
So the outline of my talk is here.
I'll just briefly give you the physics cases for forward muon detection out of you on Collider experiment and also some synergies with,
uh, a derivative project.
I'm also interested in which the muon ion collider experiment, um, I'll explain for you the need for forward me on detectors.
If you want a luminosity measurement from Bhabha scattering,
and then I'll give you some initial thinking about possible straw designs for a forward muon spectrometer at the TeV scale, uh, based on tau.
Right. And some initial thinking of a layout. Okay.
So as far as the physics processes, okay, we've heard that a muon collider is very much also a vector boson collider.
For example, the main diagrams at high energy for Higgs production are going to be through vector boson fusion.
Um, if I can convince people also to inject protons instead of mu plus for some runs,
we can do some deep elastic scattering studies at a completely novel regime in q squared and x.
In that case, you have a muon scattering off of a quark and the proton, or at least a proton.
And you might mention tagging that muon in the in the final state.
And then on the more technical level, you might want to know how much data you've collected.
So traditionally a lepton collider that's the Babar scattering. So these are the diagrams.
But replacing say electrons from electron colliders with muon. And in all these cases the lepton scatters at very small angles and hence the need.
And I'll show you that in the next couple slides. So for example, if I take a vector boson fusion of Higgs bosons had a ten TV muon collider.
The blue curves show the data distribution of the scattered muon for at least a neutral current scattering.
So the, you know, remains charged, and you can see it's peaking at around eight of plus or minus five.
So to tag those muons, you would need to have coverage somewhere in the range from 3 to 6 in absolute pseudo rapidity so far backward and for region.
And you might want to do that to, for example, um, measure the kinematic properties of the muon.
So you can infer, for example, uh, invisible Higgs decays, you know, how much is going into there and uh, and even maybe the width.
And there are other interesting, uh, muon physics processes that can lead to for muons, but I won't I won't cover all those here.
Uh, so that's when, when case, um, for the case where I take a muon beam a collide with a proton,
um, our more recent, uh, conceptual idea of a muon ion collider,
which can make use of exactly the same facilities, a muon collider, uh, to take a mu one TV muon beam collide with a proton.
In this case, it was for the direct beam of point three TV.
But nevertheless, the message is true as shown in this plot.
This is a plot of q squared versus x for deep elastic scattering.
These dashed lines show you the pseudo rapidity of the scatter lepton, and except for the very highest q squared,
we're looking at eight of values down to as small as minus or far forward.
It's minus seven. And you know, you know, range pretty pretty far beyond beyond the central region of uh, up to around plus or minus two.
So we would need forward coverage to tag those scattered muons. Minus seven is just two mill irradiance, for example.
Okay. Then I started thinking, well, okay, wait, but we have to measure luminosity.
Maybe Boba scattering is the way to do it. So what is what? What is involved?
So, uh, from your textbooks, you'll find the differential cross-section for baba scattering here.
Um, and the one thing this note is it has this one over s term here.
Um, so I've plotted this across a differential cross-section here there's two blue lines, two lines, one blue, one red.
The blue one would be the baba across differential cross-section at LEP two.
So point two TeV and red is for ten TV.
And uh you're between 3 and 4 orders of magnitude suppressed in cross-section.
So we have a lot less rate. If you wanted similar rates as an LEP experiment to measure Baba's.
I've got a slide on this diagram. This is the differential cross-section versus Ada.
So I'd have to slide about two units of data to get the comparable rates for the same luminosity.
So that's telling you you have a need for forward coverage. Um some kind of muon detectors and spectrometer ideally.
Now what would those rates be. That was a little surprising to me too.
Um, so this is now the integrated cross-sections. And, uh, first of all, I would say if we're gonna do a luminosity measurement,
we want a real time feedback on how much luminosity our detector is getting.
We probably want to rate the order Hertz, maybe even many Hertz, probably not, you know, very rarely.
So this if I just take and focus on the red text, take our central muon coverage out to say of plus or -2.4,
just to pick an example, if I tag muons there, I get a ten to the 35 luminosity 0.035Hz of bombers.
So it's about half a minute per per event.
If I start at a lower luminosity, say 10 to 33, we're talking of order an hour before another proper scattering comes by.
It's not very real time. Uh, so that's that's the issue.
So you want to go more forward? Um, so I can if I skip ahead in the next slide, same plot.
If I look at, uh, higher values of ETA and integrate over, uh, differential region in pseudo rapidity of 1.6 and I'll explain why that value.
But, um, then I can get different rates. So if I look say just beyond the for the central region from 2.4 to 4, then okay,
at 10 to 33, I can at least get at two minutes per event instead of an hour.
Um, and about a Hertz at ten and 35. So okay, that could work and give me my Hertz feedback.
If I go more forward, of course I get more rate.
So, uh, if I take the region from 4 to 5.6, which is kind of in the range of where the to tag neutral current gbf processes,
then I can get close to a Hertz that does lower luminosity of 1033 and definitely like tens of hertz for 10 to 35.
And then now of course, if the more forward you go, because it's peaking so much dramatically at the far forward region,
I can get many hertz, uh, for the very fast tagging, um, region.
So that's that's the message. If we want to get really real time monitoring for Bobbers, we really need to go very forward to tag them.
So how might I do that? Um, so just to kind of do a straw study because I was interested in not only trying to detect forward muons,
but also maybe trying to measure the momentum. These are going to be TV muons.
If you want to measure the momentum, then you're going to need a pretty strong, powerful magnet.
Um, you want something kind of symmetric and phi, um, down the very high eta.
And uh, so I need to think about tau, right.
So that's the experiment. I'm not on the atlas. Uh, but uh, okay.
Since I don't know how to design magnets per se, there are some existing, some proofs,
like the end cap towards of Atlas so we can see how could that be used for a downstream spectrometer.
And so the idea here is to do a dedicated spectrometer down the beam line or past the experiment collision point,
as opposed to what we also heard in this workshop about maybe instrumenting the, um, the nozzle.
Um, the challenges with the nozzle is that you have a large beam induced background in there.
You're also not going to be able to make a spectrometer.
You're not good to measure momentum because you're muon and uh, think field central make you feel point in the same direction.
So don't no bending. Uh, so if I have a dedicated spectrometer, I need to field perpendicular the motion.
And these things are basically going horizontal. So a toroid fits that bill.
These are kind of the rough parameters of the size of that this large incorporates, you know, PDL integrators like for 18 Tesla meters.
And if you really wanted to cover a full range in pseudo rapidity,
then you're going to need probably several stations because this will cover like 1.6 units of sort of rapidity.
Um, so you're talking getting pretty far away from the central point.
The first station could be somewhat close, and then you're getting further and further along.
Um, small angles obviously require large distances.
Um, so we started on trying to do a detailed study with a toroid and, uh,
swimming some muons through the field and then trying to have a reconstruction algorithm with some detector hits with John four.
That's really not ready to kind of show yet. We still need to do a little bit more, more work on that.
So this is more idealized or idealized toroidal field.
And then just analytically assuming a detector resolution of order 150 microns from a muon detector to try to figure out the deflection and theta,
uh, for these, uh, TV scale muons. And this is very roughly kind of, you know, just take it with a grain of salt, uh,
a parametrized resolution and momentum you could get from such a spectrometer, going from a TV to a full TV, uh, from green to red.
Um, so basically one TV, the average of this, because the field is getting weaker with radius and the torrid.
If it's not a flat resolution, it gets worse at that larger radii.
So to average about 5% at one TV. Of course if you swim that up to five TV, you're talking 25.
Uh, I think uh, 25%. So it's not the most straight, uh, precise measurement.
So you might need a stronger magnitude, better resolution. Um, for example, for trying to measure the invisible Higgs decay.
If you look in this article, you would prefer something less than 10% of resolution.
So something you'd have to work on.
And this is not yet including any energy loss fluctuations in beyond passing through the shielding, which I'll say something about now.
If you have several stations of these and you need several toroidal spectrometers downstream.
Um, so this is just showing, you know, kind of cartoon cartoon like with the three different plots,
your resolution kind of making this sawtooth as you go from two eight of 2.4 out to maybe as far as seven,
if you could put something 600m downstream, uh, way outside the ring.
Um, so one station could be sufficient if we're just trying to tag Bobbers, um,
we can just put it to an optimum place with enough rate and also to get the vibe of tagging if you want to really cover the full range,
which we might want to do for, you know, for example, deep scattering measurements, you might want several.
Uh, one thing to point out, if you're only going to tag me and not measure the momentum,
then we could just put some neon detectors right in the whole of the track where there's not any field,
because, uh, if far enough outside the ring, then there's no beamline elements to have to go through the center of the toroid in that case.
And so you could probably just do that, but I chose the toroid also has a nice feature.
You could put any beam elements going through the middle of it, if not be too much, uh, impacted by that.
All right. So that was, you know, some idea of a spectrometer for, for muons, of course, to muons.
And I mean, clerics really have to go through the, the tungsten nozzles. And tungsten is really dense.
I've learned um, these does absorb quite a bit of energy.
Um, this is a J on four plot of a one TV muon.
And uh, you can see down at 900 GV, so you've lost about 10%.
That's pretty much constant. That higher energy using five TV loses about 10% at the peak.
You could calibrate that out if you're making momentum measurements.
So on average you can or at least on the mode most likely value would be about 10% loss.
But you're going to have some fluctuations because it's more of a land type peak.
So that would introduce some energy spread there. Um, so that's the impact there.
But the muons do make it through there. There's nothing that's not making through them.
Almost nothing as far as the angular scattering.
Um, for example, tagging Bob as you're looking for them to go kind of back to back in three dimensions, uh, how does it impact scattering?
Turns out to be energies. Not much at all. So well below degree of smearing on the angular value.
So we should be able to tag Baba's downstream even through the shielding cones. All right.
In the last two minutes, just some thoughts about possible detectors, uh, for your immune system.
Uh, so you can imagine pacing in front and behind a toroidal magnet system, some muon detectors.
I'll pick the ones that I'm most familiar with on CMS, which are cathode strip chambers.
Atlas has them as well. There are other technologies. Gem and micro Omegas, for example.
Doesn't really matter at this point. I'm just showing some possibilities here.
Cathode strip chambers have many, many wires for the like, shaping the setting up the electric field and doing the amp amplification.
And then on the strips you get the induced charge and you infer your precision coordinate from the charge sharing on the different strips.
And it's a multi layer device good for high occupancy. So just don't have to mind my scribbles.
But one way to do is just paste them in like uh, trapezoidal pie shaped uh detectors, two rings of them, an inner ring and an outer ring.
So when we're about 15 degrees, a little bit more with overlap for full Henrietta coverage for 30 degrees for the outer region.
So that might be about 36 cc's per plane of detector G, one in front, one behind, maybe more.
But I chose these sizes because these are lengths and widths and areas approximately on par with what was manufactured for the CMS experiment.
So there was once a proof that you can make something that size, uh,
whether we still care is a different story, but we could make them so that look doable.
Um, but you know, the arc we do have this beam induced background event might be a lot more backgrounds.
I mean, these cses for the LHC, of course, we're dealing with a lot of pile up.
So, um, this brought back a memory from when I was a postdoc, which is two, many decades ago.
But before we built the Cses, I tried to argue, well, we could add another view instead of having just strips one way and wires the other,
have strips of two different angles and multiple layers, and then and then the wires, you get three views.
So if you have multiple charged particles, the detector, you can figure out which combinations are the real ones versus the ghosts.
The only thing by the way, if you're on an experiment, we've run the wires differently and the strips than they are at, um, at the LHC experiments.
Here are the important coordinate from the bending of a toroid is in theta, whereas in a solenoid it's phi.
So you have to orient 90 degrees of strips. So that's a canonical design.
And then if I put a tilt of like plus or -15 degrees, that's what I might do.
And then I have, like I said, two rings of these things going there. But since I'm about out of time, uh,
just to say that this stereo option could help deal with if the backgrounds are high, even in these downstream stations.
Um, I even thought about well, that was two types of detectors, because this one, there were two rings.
So they're different sizes. And you have to manufacture two kinds.
That's okay. We could do that. But is there a way to maybe do with one detector, just this same detector just oriented around.
So I thought about a hexagon that can paste a disk pretty well and pretty similar area.
I have no idea if it can be manufactured, but wires one way into two levels, two directions of strips, also about 30 degrees apart.
So I'll skip all the details. But, um,
I think I convinced myself I can paste a whole wall of hexagons and still have the precision coordinate roughly pointing in the theta direction,
and it's all the same detector. Just one type to make anyway.
So let me finish. Uh, main message was to convince you that a monte Carlo.
I'm sorry. Muon collider young Collider luminosity measurement based on Bob was getting overloaded acronym there.
Right. Well, the scattering is going to have a very low rate without forward muon detection.
Tagging and measurement of processes also requires forward wound detection should you want that.
Um, I think this also synergistic with another program of doing my muon ion collisions.
That's a different talk I could give. And then um, some initial ideas about a strong toroidal magnetic spectrometer to do that.
And uh, next steps would be to finish very detailed simulation, develop a reconstruction algorithm,
and try to measure performance and optimize and see what could be done if should we get to design an experiment?
Thank you very much. So I don't know.
Okay. Um. Uh. So. Thanks. Awesome. Uh, the the first point here on the summary, uh, is, is, of course, yes.
Super important. And and even if you open up that the theta acceptance, uh, you said something like, uh, Hertz or Hertz, um, uh, of course,
the thing that we've been thinking about a lot in the past couple of weeks, especially, uh, that's at the same level as your VBS production.
And so if you want to have a reasonable Lumi estimate on your VBS, the estimate we can't use.
So, so it's it's it's an interesting problem. Uh, especially as we go to these high energies where the Mu Baba dives to a super low rate.
Um, uh, have you thought about, uh, any other ways to deal with this, or do we rely on z counting plus this and throw away that?
Yeah. I mean, this is focusing on kind of the lepton collider traditional luminosity measurement,
but because it peaks so much in the forward direction, there are other processes we can imagine.
We just have to compute the rates and see is this and what's the, uh, theoretical uncertainty on those rates to see if it's,
uh, which physically could be small, but just to see if it's reasonable and uh, okay.
So yeah, I think it's for that reason.
It's still I think I loved your talk first of all. But, uh, I really think we need to split when we talk about luminosity, about two different tasks,
which is real time luminosity feedback to the accelerator and integrated luminosity accuracy.
The requirement for these two things are very different.
If we can do with the same thing. Great. Yeah. But not necessarily.
And so integrated luminosity something like VSC production gives you a similar rate is very easy to identify.
There is much very little to no immediate background contamination as it is I would say hopefully pretty
decently well known theoretically how to compute and therefore can give us an accurate offline measurement.
The forward target. We need it because we need something that gives us high rate to be able to give Hertz wise
kind of feedback to the accelerator on this continuous luminosity that is being achieved.
And so to me, that one is the two things need to go together because these fulfill different requirements.
And I think the type of set of hertz, um, rates estimate that you had is really critical to basically see that.
Yeah, that was the message there.
And I think if you talk to anyone measuring luminosity experience, the more ways you have to measure it, it's always better to cross that.
But that's yet a different reason. And that is to control systematic uncertainties, which is critical, especially for offline, uh, calibration.
One small thing I wanted to, uh, to say, another thing that has been looked in the past as like for the forward tagging of the muons is,
is like you can try to measure the momentum with the magnetic field.
The other possibility, which I think people just try to do some back on the envelope calculation,
I think it would be nice to put it to the next level,
is that if you have several measurement of them, actually make use of the multiple scattering that happens through the material,
and basically figuring out from the deviation from the multiple scattering, use that to get, uh,
a measurement of the momentum so that you don't need you, you trade off having multiple measurement, but you don't need the, uh, magnetic field.
Yeah. It's interesting.
Yeah, I hadn't thought about that, but, I mean, I thought about it in the sense of, you know, the angular deflection, but using that.
Yeah. So, uh, building on what was said over there, um, as Larry said, we've been looking at all these kind of like,
detector rates recently and trying to understand, you know, what's happening per event.
And indeed the, the Z counting gives you like, well, for some definition of your acceptance,
an order of magnitude more, uh, events than your eye angle, Bob.
Uh, but also what's at the very top of that list?
Well, at the very top of that list is bad, which we all know is not correlated with luminosity.
So not helpful to us. Tough background. Yes. Um, but the next thing down is the incoherent e plus e minus scattering, um,
which has a huge tail that goes into that you're not going to be able to track,
doesn't have a high energy kind of detail, but it has a huge tail that populates your innermost layer,
um, of your detector and should be, um, correlated with, uh, the, uh, luminosity.
So I'm curious if you have any thoughts about whether it's feasible to use hit counting,
um, from E plus T minus uh, from like incoherent e, possibly minus for Lumi.
I have not a thought about that. Can I know this? For example, LHC experiments we do hit counting all the time to help as a measure of luminosity.
I I from my perspective, I get a little worried because of all the beam in the background.
What am I am I really is a pure. Up. Here are the hits of the county.
I don't know, someone pointed out earlier, I don't remember who it was that you could measure the beam in the background,
um, by just not focusing your beams so you could you could control that pretty well.
Right. Or measure it. Yeah, yeah. So my guess is that we're over time was just solely to look at the bar band impact.
And just because I wanted to know what is that. And so that's what I really want.
But I think uh yeah.
So it's very quick question, do we have to worry about, uh, uh, Mayan Decay products, uh, so far away from the, uh, uh, from the beam line.
Um, did you have some background if you're near the beam line, yes.
If if you're when the couple hundred meters passed, maybe you can already be shielded and or at least the products would not be going that way,
but, uh, there's going to be some straight line section pointing there.
And so, yes, it will be impacted by the decay products.
But further out, when you're beyond the beam line,
maybe you might think of some kind of extra shielding to kind of stop some of those electrons and keep the muons.
Thanks a lot. I think this is going to make for a pretty. And then on to calorimetry with zero readout rates.
Briscoe. A. Thanks. So I'm going to preface this with this is not a dedicated muon collider talk.
This is an overview of this detector technology.
Um, of course it's since it's a new type of detector, maybe we can use it at the muon Collider.
And hopefully I can convince you that it might be interesting.
So I like to start this conversation, even though we've been talking about calorimetry a lot,
maybe not as much as timing, particularly in this session, but we've been talking about calorimetry a lot this week.
Um, to remind people of how it actually happens. So electrons, of course,
they immediately start depositing energy because they interact with the electric field of the atoms that are in your absorber.
They like to interact. They do it super readily. This is why cows come first, right?
Regardless of what you put in front, it will always be your equal. The second thing is with hadrons are a little bit more complicated.
In order for them to start dumping any sort of appreciable amount of energy into a detector.
You actually have to wait for a strong interaction to happen. This is why we have dense layers of absorbers, so on and so forth.
You want to give it a lot of things that it could possibly interact with in order to start the cascade.
JP gave us a nice overview of this, but I think it's worthwhile to remind if I'm going to talk about inorganic scintillator,
you need to know the difference of why we have homogenous and sampling calorimeter.
Most of the ones that people have been talking about um, for, well, at least the Maya detector.
Excuse me. Use the sampling style. Um, but but music has a play on this homogeneous but moderately segmented.
So inhomogeneous calorimeter is the absorber and the active material are exactly the same.
So a classic example of this is the CMS calorie uh equals it's crystals.
This is great for electrons and photons because since they dump all of their energy so readily you get lots of soft secondaries.
All of those ionize. If you capture all of them, you can get the best energy resolution possible.
Everything, in principle more or less is visible.
So if you have something homogeneous, you can capture all of that and that can improve your resolution.
Sampling those classically great for hadrons. Here you have interleaved layers of things that are super, super dense.
So you get those interactions to happen. But not all of a hadron decay is inherently visible.
Some of it can go into just moving the nucleus around, breaking it up. Some of this just disappears naturally.
This will ultimately degrade your hadron energy resolution.
So maybe having something that can collect everything doesn't give you enough of a boost, because these can be kind of hard to build.
But for electrons, you really can't beat what you can get in in homogeneous crystal calorimeter in particular, this is just directly taken from PDG.
The main thing you want to see here is everything's kind of in the, you know,
the single digit and even low single digit resolutions over square root of energy.
So if you want precision, electromagnetic energy, electromagnetic energy, uh, measurements, scintillating crystals are really the way to go.
Now, the bad news is, it's not only is it not great for hadrons,
actually having a crystal equal in front of a nickel tends to make it worse if you're not careful.
So this is the Monte Carlo study, uh, of the CMS calorimeter system.
This is showing the reconstructed energy over the energy available.
Not directly the energy resolution, but it gives you a feel. And this is for charged pions.
Basically, if they, you know, decay and start interacting in the h cal, everything's fine.
The reconstruction is good. But once that starts coming a little bit earlier into the crystals, well then you have a problem.
And this reconstructed energy takes. So even though you get this precision electromagnetic energy, uh, energy resolution,
you take a hit in the fact that it makes it harder to measure the energy of your hadrons.
And that just comes from how hadrons end up depositing energy.
So some of that energy will come out and pi zeros. That then goes to photons and electrons.
And then this process energy, just like any other electronic photon that would go through your system.
All right. Great. This isn't super bright. Everything can produce visible signal.
The second part here is what people kind of commonly call the hadronic component.
You can also think of it as the nonrelativistic component.
You of course have other charge hadrons pop out which will then travel some distance before they have their strong interaction.
You have neutrons that'll rattle around in your detector, causing all sorts of problems that we know about protons, so on and so forth.
And again, nuclear break ups bring down and this sort of thing why this is a problem is that the ratio of
the energy of your initial hadron going to the electromagnetic and this hadronic component,
uh, uh, portion changes event for event.
So here is just an example of pions. About 60% of it goes electromagnetically.
But you can see that this is a huge spread. So event to event a ten GeV hadrons gonna look different each and every time.
How much goes here and how much goes here. Why do we care about that?
Well, of course your detector response actually differs for each one of those branches,
since the electrons and photons will eventually mostly end up in soft photons,
which will eventually go to a for electric effect, and then you have ionization in there.
The response for that is actually pretty good.
But the hadronic component, again, because it has these other things that also have different time constants, generally makes it a little bit lower.
So not only does not all the energy get deposited the same way each time.
Those different fractions also have one GeV looking different in your detector, which will ultimately degrade your energy resolution.
So if you're thinking about what this would look like in a homogenous detector or a scintillating crystal scintillating glass,
something like this, here's just a picture of something. This is actually a electron, but they look better in the crystals.
Both parts of this will contribute to sunlight point. That's what we hope, right?
We want to be able to measure both. So we want obviously both to flash.
If we're trying to measure scintillating light as some sort of proxy for energy.
The good news is, is that most of the trend will actually come from the Pi zero electromagnetic portion,
since this stuff is still going to be moving pretty relativistic in your,
uh, in your material, you can use the fraction of Cherenkov light that you, uh,
measure to be a proxy for how much of the energy actually went electromagnetically.
So now you're no longer limited by the fact that these ratios of deposition change event to event.
You can measure it directly and in principle that this could be an event by event, uh, calibration or correction to your measured energy.
So this is the idea of dual readout calorimetry. We don't just measure one thing, which is scintillation light.
We can measure scintillation light and Cherenkov light in order to correct our energy measurement in the end.
Now seems pretty straightforward, but it's not trivial to actually separate strong carbon scintillation light, particularly in homogenous crystals.
It's light traveling through all of it will look the same. So there's two ways that you can actually begin to separate this.
If you want to do it in a scintillating crystal or scintillating glass.
The most obvious is of course, with wavelength filters. So here I have a picture of a bunch of different parameters.
Here you have some CPM acceptances, but you know, ignore those.
But the main thing to look at is the scintillation spectrum of LED tongue state here in the green, the Cherenkov spectrum of light on state in blue.
And you can just smack on a high pass filter. Boom.
Cut out all of that scintillation light. And then everything you would uh, except is track off.
Now of course, you have to play with this little tail here, which can be nasty.
As we all know, modeling tails can be can be a bear, but this is how you can think about it.
The other way you can begin to separate. This is actually a time structure.
So that Cherenkov light, since it's actually the shockwave wavefront coming through it's inherently more prompt.
So the beginning of your pulse, if you're measuring it will be mainly the trunk of light,
but the tail will be that scintillation time constant as it actually decays.
And it goes over time. So you can also use the time structure in order to separate out chunk of and scintillation light in these materials.
What we've tested is both and I would say the best approach depends on your scintillating material.
Um, I would say that this will always, you know, work.
If your electronics are good enough.
This you will always lose photons, which of course is directly related to how well you can actually measure your energy.
So we've tested this, um, the most recent test beam that we had was with the two GeV electron beam at Daisy.
Uh, last year we had eight systems in total, but for on either side, they were Broadcom six by six of them.
And we prioritize configurability. So we were actually able to test several different crystals.
And I'll go through them. So here you can see that we would have front channels which we were mainly
targeting scintillation light since that should be isotropic in your crystal. But trunk hop is directional.
So we'll go down. We would stick our filter on the back and we've um could read it out there, we could rotate it and so on and so forth.
And here you can see our box there. And I'll just convince you again that it's real here you can see those systems, how we have them oriented.
And then we had some other services. Everything was ultimately right out to uh, 16 channel dresses.
We had our calibration system. Just to give you a hint of how well we were controlling some systematics.
So I have 2.5 results, uh, to show today. The first one was this Biggio.
This is a crystal that was used in L-3. So you can see, uh, uh, LEP experiments, we had 16 radiation links.
So this is, you know, that's not entirely enough for containment, but it gets us part of the way there.
But only one crystal. So we're not including the whole shower. We used a Hoya U3, uh, U3 30 filter.
This is a band filter, so you can just slices out the scintillation.
We accept low UV, and we accept, uh, infrared, uh, radiation from the trunk of the second, uh, main result I'm going to show you is with DSP glass.
So this is, uh, one of the materials that Kristian mentioned earlier in, uh, in blue Sky.
This is the first time this type of glass has ever been put in into a beam.
This is a barium and gadolinium doped, uh, glass.
It's not a crystal. It's how it's made. But the kicker here, this is 15cm long.
The BGA was, what, 18? But this only has six radiation lengths.
So the density here is really what we're hitting. This is why it's still blue sky.
We don't necessarily want our full calorimeter to be made out of this.
And here we just used a simple high pass filter. Everything above 640 nanometers.
We accept it on the back. And then the point five result I'm going to talk about is APS glass.
Again. This is another one of those new materials that we have access to.
This one is much more dense. We only had six centimeters of it. And we.
She had for radiation length. So now we're starting to get to something that you might actually need to build a calorimeter out of.
You can see how blue sky it is, but how little of it we have.
It's harder to make bigger ones, so hopefully they'll give us a bigger one soon.
And this one actually running it unfiltered was best.
The analysis of this one is still ongoing, but you can actually see the trend of edge by eye right off.
You could probably almost read off the photo electrons from here. So in principle should be the easiest to analyze.
So of course we we left it for last. And then both of these again.
This is the first time any of this had ever seen beam. So the reason we had a motion stage is we wanted to take our measurements at different angles.
And you could ask, why do we want to take them at different angles?
Your calorimeter will always just be at one angle and everything hopefully will be normal to it.
Shrink off is directional, so you can convince yourself that you've accepted Cherenkov light if that acceptance actually changes with angle.
Now of course it also has path length differences.
But you normalize those out and then hopefully you see something that you want to control for this experiment.
Because I particularly like the waveform sampling I like to do to the shape analysis is we actually use LED fluoride.
So this is the material from the Krylon calorimeter. Just to put it into perspective, this is only Cherenkov.
And um here we have 22 I see that there's a hand raised, but I guess we can maybe get it get to at the end if we're okay.
We have 22 radiation lengths there. And we use this as the base of the trend shape.
So once you normalize it, you can see that, okay, a single trend called photo Electron should give us this response in our sebum.
So if you go to Biggio and you take some measurements here again here's the green from that uh, LED fluoride.
We have our front and our back waveforms. So in principle the front should be all scintillation.
Of course trend comes there, but bigos so bright that that should be well, uh, well, uh, washed out.
And then the red is the scintillation. Plus, the trend of this is our filtered one.
They're just normalized here. This is why they all look the same. But to give you a better hint of how we're actually thinking of a shape.
So in principle, the green, you know, plus the blue here should look should look like the red.
This is really similar. So it's going to be actually pretty hard to extract out the trick off.
So what do you do when you're trying to understand, uh, how fast something is changing.
You differentiate it. Right. So that's what we did. So it was even a real differentiation.
We actually just use the single delay line technique. We basically just took their X.
We took samples every uh nanosecond. So we just did a two nanosecond delay.
And that served as our slight uh derivative. And then this nice shrink off pulse became this steel comes.
All right. So then what should scintillation look like?
Well, you just convolve that, uh, with the derivative of, of the decay of BGA, which in this case was around 300, uh, 314 nanoseconds.
And then you get a shape that looks like this. All right.
So now we have our shape. So now we can start to extract some photo electrons.
So we built the steel pulse of the average amplitude.
So this was just the um a max or amplitude we we recorded in millivolts.
This peak will then correspond to the average energy deposition in the crystal G4.
It gives us a nice, uh, uh, a nice way to, to quantify that.
This is about actually 1.5 GV or so. We don't contain the whole thing.
So you take a pulse from there and that ends up looking like this on average. And you can see here the component fits directly.
You have the blue is our trend carbon. The green is our scintillation. And then you normalize that to the energy that's deposited.
And that allows you to get a photo electrons per GeV.
And then you get something like this. So using this formula you can extract out the photo electrons per GeV.
Here's the scintillation. Again this is a control. This is where most of the energy measurement will be happening.
But in order to do the correction you have to have the trend called out.
And here you can see our nice characteristic trick off peak at the trend called angle.
And you can see then versus angle kind of how much we are actually expecting.
So 90 degrees in this case was straight on. That's roughly how you'd want your actual calorimeter work to work.
And if you're optimistic and say okay, each one of our systems in the back, there should be four.
You'll notice there's only two. Our setup struggled. All right. It wasn't a perfect it wasn't a perfect uh it wasn't a perfect test beam.
Let's say every single system had the response to this one.
We have about 125 electrons for GeV.
That doesn't seem like a lot, but our benchmark was actually 50 foto electrons per GeV in order for this event by event correction to work.
So we were pretty excited by this. You can do the same thing with the DSP glass.
So here we have the average pulses. Without the filter you can see that they're also pretty big.
We say it's some admixture of this here. We actually don't know um exactly what it was.
This is a proprietary technology. Um, and here you can see what these, um, look like.
If we differentiate them, you can see again the, um, the trend called pulse and then our in our scintillation in the green.
This one actually has two time constants. It's a slightly more complicated, uh, uh uh, a slightly more complicated shape.
But the idea was the same. And then you can play the same games.
What actually ended up happening was our, um. Uh, Sasha.
She scanned all of the different ratios in jail.
You can't have all of those different glass admixtures to come up with something that had the physical properties we observed,
and that was what he pretended it wasn't. John. So there's a large uncertainty on the actual amount of energy deposited here.
But this again gives you a feel of what it could be. The scintillation looks pretty good.
The trunk of okay, it's a little bit, uh, has a little bit more weird of a shape, but you can still kind of see the peak there.
So assuming that our model of the DSB is correct, we're actually getting somewhere around 1000 Cherenkov photo electrons for GV.
So this we were really excited about. And this is again the first time this glass has been put in the beam.
So this is a really nice candidate to do some Dorito. Again the caveat though this one unfortunately wasn't very done.
So we'd have to do probably a little bit more gadolinium loading. So summary and future plans.
The test beams are promising, but this doesn't show that a full calorimeter of this scale would work.
We've been able to do it successfully in BTO and DSV. DSP originally came up in targeting something like the homogenous H cal.
You can also just use it as a cheaper type of crystal. But again, you've seen the density is somewhere that we struggle.
But the next steps for this to in order to see can we actually build a calorimeter out of it, is to do a containment.
So we of course didn't manage to get all of the the electron energy in one crystal.
So you build something that has more radiation lengths and can actually do transverse containment.
So we're building a five by five Biggio crystal matrix. And it's actually moderately segmented.
So the front layer will be more highly granular. And this will allow us to do PID will actually be able to do a pion versus electro.
Uh oh yeah. Fine. Um versus electron separation. And then you have the back one which is actually where the Dr. will happen.
The ultimate precision test though, is to actually do a test beam with a dual readout, uh, hadron calorimeter back end.
We want to, of course, preserve the precision electromagnetic energy resolution.
But if it doesn't deliver good hadron energy resolution, this is a lot of complication for maybe not a lot of good reason.
So this will be the final say of if this technology will work and the simulation is maturing.
So we do have the crystal equal fully integrated in key for Hep but for the FCC.
But you can probably rip it and stick it somewhere else. Um, that's I guess the beauty of Qi for hep.
So that's what I'm hoping will happen soon. And then we have our full dual readout testing module already implemented in Jan.
So that's it for me. Uh, yeah.
So there was one question on zoom. I don't know if Roger's hand still up.
Yeah, yeah, my hands up if you want to go. Other questions first.
That's fine. So you're deferring your question to people in the room?
You can just ask, I think. Okay. I have a couple of questions.
First of all, a nice, nice talk. Um, so Biggio is notoriously but it is not particularly radiation hot, nor is it very fast.
Um, I just think in the context of the neuro collider, I don't know what the anticipated radiation levels are,
uh, especially in this, uh, the, the echo or at the, um, and the, uh, the hadronic section.
But this may, may preclude this or using that type of technology.
Um, and the muon collider. But FCC, where the rates are really low, it's definitely a possibility.
Um, that's more of a comment. Um, the other one is I was curious about the plots that you showed with the Charing Cross signal,
and they went on for tens of nanoseconds, like, I think 22, if I remember correctly.
Could you speak about that? I'm sorry. Which which 22.
I think just say sort of several. No, no. 22 at that.
That's right. This one is fine. Yes. So this is your pulse, which goes on for none, like hundreds of nanoseconds.
Oh, yeah. This is it was it was dreadfully slow. Dreadfully, I guess, because the chunk of light arrives within a few picoseconds.
Yeah. So in this case, this is a known limit.
You have a you have a good eye. And I'm glad that you picked it out, particularly for this audience.
So this is a known issue actually with the electronic shaping in this case.
Um, this was just how it was designed.
The next version of this has a dramatically faster shaping, which will limit this to hopefully a nanosecond or two,
which is still probably not, uh, exactly what people would want.
But I guess it kind of just depends on where you want to go.
So you're totally right. But this was just, uh, um, just an artifact of the shaping that was chosen for this test.
Okay, so this is the output of the preamplifier, which at the same time, I guess, looking at this plot of the order of 100 nanoseconds.
So that's you don't really want to do this to separate out the light from scintillation light?
Yeah. I mean, there are many papers in the whole study. Um, I don't know if you're at this, um, but Pet detectors using Pgo,
where they separate out the Cherenkov signal for precision timing and Pet detectors,
and they then use the Biggio for the energy measurement as well as for the thing.
So yeah. Okay. So basically if you have a problem with your electronics and you're trying to dig out a signal, a very,
very fast signal, um, with some very, very slow electronics, that's really what's happening in your case, right.
Yeah. So the reason that the matrix is being built with it, I'll be honest, I didn't hear 100% of what you said.
It was it was a little quiet for me. Um, so if my response does not address it, I apologize.
And that's why, um, the reason we picked Vigo is because that is the one that was easier for us to do it,
because the trend is so much faster than the simulations. Um, so to prove this, particularly like for FCC, uh, the Biggio made more sense.
You wouldn't want to use Biggio for probably.
I don't ever like to speak in any sort of declarative thing for for a muon collider,
you'd want something much faster, like ISO or less tongue state, but then this becomes harder.
No, you're right. Absolutely right. This is my Carmen Biggio. And I said that there's been some studies that you may well be aware of the using
Biggio in Pet detectors for precision timing as well as energy measurement.
Yeah. Okay. Thank you. But I think we need to to move on.
Um, if you don't mind, if we we have one.
Perfect. Thank you very much. Let's take Grace again.
Perfect. And our last talk is from right about timing systems.
Perfect. I'll try to give you some warning.
So Jennifer had to leave. So ask me to introduce Stella.
Speaker. Perfect. Get all yours.
Can you guys? Can you guys hear me? Hello? We've done here.
Green light. Okay, perfect. Uh, I hate to be the guy holding you from your lunch, but, uh, I, um.
So, like I said, uh, I'm going to be talking about, like, uh, clock distribution systems,
which are very crucial when you need to think about timing for your detector,
because that's one of the terms, uh, that's going to come in into your resolution.
I'm going to be talking about how you can distribute a clock targeting something like sub picosecond,
uh, which will be very useful for like future accelerators and detectors.
Uh, there are three slides holding you back. I promise I'll be fast.
Okay. So, uh, the the the problem is you can't just, like, send a clock and expect the edges to behave, uh, and be ideal.
It's just going to drift based on, like, uh, different environmental effects.
And, uh, the question is, how do I minimize these kind of fluctuations?
Right. And can we really do it for less than a picosecond so that we have like enough room when you're building a system and a network,
distributing a clock, uh, that your detector is going to like, uh, have like, very minimal effects from clock distribution.
Couple of things to know before we proceed. And I want to be fast. There are many motivations to having precision timing.
Right. And, uh, discrimination in the muon collider is of course, uh, uh, is the is the topic of interest?
Yep. And, uh, time resolution for a generic detector.
So you have like you essentially measure the time of arrival of a particle with respect to the edge of a distributed clock.
Right. And you are talking about like 13m of detector with, like, uh, thousands of channels.
Uh, and, uh, you you need to make sure the edge of the clock is distributed and that it does not fluctuate.
And if fluctuations will directly come into the time resolution. And this was like one.
So what I care about is like procession of the reference clock.
And uh, before we go further, this, these, uh, fluctuations in the clock, there are two types.
Uh, first is the high frequency fluctuations, generally called jitter.
And, uh, there are these low frequency wanders. Right.
High frequency fluctuations.
Not that problematic because you can always use like, uh, like, uh, jitter attenuator, which are like, commercially available but slow fluctuations.
We need to we need to like, characterize them and correct for them in real time,
slow fluctuations like, uh, temperature changes in your optical fiber.
So, uh, to get a sense, if you are optical fiber, 100m or whatever, like, uh,
thermally expands by 300 micrometers, it, uh, leads to one picosecond of, like, a shift in your clock, right?
And, uh, like, the plot on the right essentially shows that, uh, for a multimode fiber,
you get as much as 16 picoseconds per degree Celsius for a 100 meter long multimode fiber.
So we need to characterize this.
So let's take a look at, uh, how things are done and how things are going to be done and, uh, what tools we at, uh, Minnesota are working on.
First looking at, uh, LHC. Uh, so right now the timing information is actually like distributed to the experiments via the TTC backbone.
So it, uh, it it is generated like, uh, synchronous to the 400MHz, uh, RF and, uh, the bunch clock and the orbit clock are distributed, right.
But, uh, this will not stand. We need to upgrade the system for the actual LHC.
The reason being that now, in order to increase the luminosity at these experiments, there are club cavities which are, like, installed.
And, uh, you need to have the precision RF, the 400MHz synchronous and sent to the experiment.
You also additionally need to have like, uh, decent enough like timing resolution being like distributed to the experiments.
That's the that's the large scale accelerator part. Now, how it is going to be done for the LHC is through something known as White Rabbit.
So there are these two kind of systems. One is the White Rabbit switch, which essentially I will talk about more in uh, in the next slide.
And uh, you have the, uh, the, uh, White Rabbit to RF, which, uh, replace the order from the original P4.
So this, this kind of system already has been like, tested and, uh, implemented in SPS, which uses an order for 200MHz.
And, uh, it's a nice paper that you can, like, look at and, uh, let's, let's go to, let's go to the White Rabbit system.
Right. So this is just two nodes like the upstream node and the downstream node.
And we will start by synchronizing these two nodes and go for the network.
So users essentially it looks looks at uh like the loop back of the clock.
The clock is sent from the upstream to the downstream. And it's sent extracted and sent back.
Okay. And, uh, you have a face detector sitting at the back end, measuring the face and communicating it.
To the, uh, downstream node. And that is a phase shifter that adjusts.
So there are like various levels of how it is, uh, done.
It, uh, it's built on top of PDP, which is the precision timing protocol,
and there are hardware level, uh, systems in place to achieve the timing that you really need.
So with these two nodes, you can build a network and uh, you need uh, you can create like a network in which you can, uh, distribute a position clock.
One thing to note here is that generally, uh, like the face detector and the clock adjustment systems are like,
implemented at the FPGA level, which means that, uh, uh,
depending on the FPGA that you are actually implementing it on, characteristics will vary,
uh, as well as will be like a lot of noise because FPGAs are not dedicated hardware.
Right. Uh, and they have like other logic, running in uh, uh, on the, on the fabric, etc., etc.
So there's a great, uh, master's thesis, uh, by this person and it's, uh, it's a great way to actually start on the white rabbit system.
So so what, like, uh, the people at CERN did is they, they took the, uh,
the White Rabbit to ODF systems and the White rabbit switches, and they created, like,
two architectures or like topologies where you you share it amongst multiple switches,
and then you go to the, uh, uh, the nodes or you have a single switch, uh, looking at the nodes.
So unfortunately you don't have the boards that there are no similar tests that are available for the let's see version of the White Rabbit.
Whatever you are seeing here is from the SPS, uh, White Rabbit system.
And uh, the target there was 200MHz.
So you can see, like, you achieve, uh, achieve a peak to peak shift in the face that is of the order of, like, uh, you know, 10 to 30 picoseconds.
And it also distributes like, uh, uh, 40MHz, the bunch clock.
So the previous plot that I showed here is essentially all the low frequency jitter.
Like I said, like depending on the temperature fluctuations or whatever.
And, uh, the high frequency part of it is like very clean.
So, so this is like the, uh, like it's integrated from 1Hz to 5MHz and you can see like the jitter is like less than three picoseconds.
So, uh, so moving forward, uh, like the, like I said, like the, uh, the White Rabbit is expected to deliver like, uh, out of ten picosecond stability.
So the, uh, the target is actually 400, uh, like one degree of 400MHz that they have to hit for,
uh, for maximum efficiency of the, uh, uh, the crab system.
Now let's look at how the [INAUDIBLE] let's see detectors do it.
Which, uh. Which is a cascade of, like, back ends and front ends.
Uh, so your FPGAs actually talk, like, send data.
Upstream and downstream. And the clock is actually encoded in the data stream and extract it out.
This saves up on, like, uh, having a dedicated optical channel.
Now on the, on the front end side where there is like radiation there,
that is like a dedicated Asec which extracts the clock from the data stream, which is called the LPT.
And we'll like have a quick look at LP, DVD performance. The the thing that you have to like, uh,
just go for is the peak to peak performance is like five picoseconds and the Optimus is also five picoseconds.
So, uh, adoption is the high frequency parts.
And the bottom show is like it's stable for that low frequency also.
So we still need stabilization for temperature, right?
Uh, that is like dedicated FPGA IPS, uh, that have been developed at CERN.
One such IP is called TK link. It's from the HPE lab.
So it it has like a phase shifter and a phase detector, uh, like sitting on the, uh, FPGA fabric.
And, uh, you you do the same thing where you send a clock and, uh, calculate the roundtrip delay and you divide it by two and correct for it.
And that's, uh, and you get a civilization of order of ten picoseconds.
Like I said, there are tools that have been developed by the U of M, and one such tool is our like DMT based phase detector.
So what we did is we we chose like high performance, uh,
commercially available parts and like built a clean circuit and, uh, did like some measurements.
And we got actually a phase detector that has like a sensitivity of the order of, uh, 100 femtoseconds.
It's very linear and like, stable across different frequencies. And, uh, similarly, we built, uh, like a DCP s uh, uh, like a phase shifter.
DC stands for digital control phase shifter, Asec, uh, and it was designed at the E department, uh, uh, for, um, uh, U of M.
So the main thing to look for here is you have 300 femtosecond steps, okay, that you can shift your clocks fixed by with a 20 picosecond range.
And you can have, like, large delays as well, which is out of the order of like 200 picoseconds.
Uh, these are essentially coplanar waveguides I wouldn't get I don't want to get into the details of which the,
uh, the other thing is it's it's temperature. Uh, there is no temperature dependance.
It has a very high bandwidth if you just use, like, the fine delays and it is radiation tolerant.
We'll take a quick look at the results. The bottom ones show essentially the temperature dependance.
So it's, uh, it's 100 femtoseconds, uh, per degree Celsius.
Sorry, this is a typo. Uh, and, uh, the fine delay is, uh, around 300 femtoseconds, and it goes all the way to like, 200 femtoseconds, uh, picosecond.
So using these tools, we actually did an experiment to demonstrate that we can stabilize a one kilometer fiber.
Right. So there is no clock data recovery here. We are just like sending up your clock and correcting for any kind of temperature fluctuations.
So what you see on the right side in red is where the stabilization had been switched on.
Uh, here. And uh, this is the clock that has been returned all the way to the back.
So we achieved like a standard deviation of like around like 120 femtoseconds with the peak to peak around 700.
Uh, just to note, this is again the low frequency part of it.
Now, looking at the high frequency part of it, like, uh, you see, it is very clean.
It's like like under a, under a picosecond.
So the stabilization for the previous slide, as I said, it was, uh, for a pure clock right now, very clean clock.
The conscious like the cost add up very fast as you increase the number of channels and the network expands.
Right. So and and if you actually use the clock data recovery chips, the problem is they are too noisy.
They're not going to like get you a picosecond.
And uh, we are working on a chip scale solution to extract this sub picosecond clock from a ten gigabit, uh, data stream.
Uh, I would love to talk more about it, but I don't have time.
So, uh, so let's go to the next topic pushing the boundaries.
So this is the concept where we are actually building, uh,
a phase detector and a phase shifter that can sit on the radiation, uh, sit on the detector.
And as immune to radiation, the whole idea is now, if you can actually, like,
communicate between the, uh, detectors, uh, through, like, sending, like, an offset clock.
And you can. Called the drifts amongst them and you send it back you you will have like additional advantages.
It gives like an additional advantage of like, uh, gives it extra handle.
Uh, you can study and correct asymmetries in like, uh, like, uh, uh, the, uh, forward and the backward direction and also like,
uh, the whole idea is like with these systems, uh, develop like a clock sync system.
So the starting point of is like, uh, how to, like, build this, uh, face detector system.
So, uh, that's that's the next slide, which the face detector is basically based on, like a fast CMll flip flop.
It's, uh, again DMD logic, but at 65 nanometer node of TSMC.
And uh, we did the transistor level design and optimize like the width and the length based on essentially
injecting a clock at a particular phase and seeing whether we can recover back that phase.
Right. And, uh, this is my first tapout, uh, the results.
Okay. The results of the simulations are on, like, uh, like the top, right?
Uh, the sensitivity is around eight femtosecond, but, uh, take that with a grain of salt,
because it's, uh, it does not include any kind of, like, noise levels, right?
So the chip has come back, and, uh, we expect results, uh, uh, results to be published or, like, presented at 1280 this year.
So that brings me back to the summary, which is like three things I want you to take home like that.
Our production level, uh, uh, production ready technologies that offer acceptable levels of clock distribution.
And Minnesota has been targeting like sub picosecond clock synchronization at a kilometer scale.
So basically what we want to do is like completely remove that term.
Right. And uh, we are also developing chip scale solutions that can sit on the detector for additional control.
So yeah. Thanks. Okay.
All right. Thank you. Perfect timing of Sunday talk. Um.
All right. We have time for one quick question, and then we break for lunch.
That wood was within one second in 15 minutes. Basically did your end of the talk.
So that was a pretty I did my bike. Yeah. All right I think okay.
People probably want to break for lunch. You can bike game during lunch.
You can find me. All right. Thank you. And we come back in the afternoon.
