# AM: Theory: Parallels

Hey, uh, for the first speaker we have, we are asked that you tell us about items, uh, for.
I forgot the title. Very important dark matter. Uh, I don't forget it.
Thank you. Thank you. Thanks for the introduction and the opportunity to be here.
Uh, I'm going to talk about, for tall dark matter, a class of dark matter models that, uh,
you want Collider based on work in collaboration with someone who's in the room,
TNT and you at Oregon and TNT as former students or your rank, um, along the way.
I will also try to advocate for the importance of including the muon part on PDF in the simulation pipelines.
I'm looking at you, Richard. Uh, and yeah, let me actually just start with that.
So we all have seen a version of these plots.
Uh, some of you maybe. We all have seen a version of this plot.
Uh, somewhere in some papers.
And I've taken this figure from a paper by David Marshall and collaborators, but I'm showing as a longitudinal fractional momentum.
I'm showing the PDF, uh, for the content of, uh, muon beam, uh, for a different part, content like the gauge bosons and the muon itself.
Um, at the muon Collider, dominantly the main channels for a lot of BSM studies that have been in production channels,
or either from initial muons that dominate at large X values, or, uh, VBR for initial gauge bosons at lower X values.
Uh one. Some uh approximations for the gauge bosons PDF are included in pipelines like math graph.
Uh, the muon PDF is not included in that graph.
So the way people actually do their BSM studies when they want to rely on the muon initial, uh,
initial muon channel is just use muon as entering the interaction with x equal one everywhere.
So it's essentially a delta function at one. We developed a very simple way of uh incorporating the muon PDF in our calculation.
And what we find is that the cross-sections doesn't change much.
But the event distributions do change a little.
And that little actually matters a lot. So just to show that here I'm showing, uh, some histograms for slapped on pair productions.
Uh, and here I'm showing the boost which, which is just slept on is produced for different masses.
And in making this plot, I have used the EBA for gauge bosons and no PDF for the new one.
You see, for each mass you see uh, tail that is essentially an imprint of these gauge bosons on PDF,
and then a sharp peak of events at largest boost possible that come from all the muons at X equal one once you actually incorporate them.
Nontrivial muon pdf at a smaller x says these figures.
These histograms turn into these guys and two things actually happen.
One, the gap that you are seeing between the VBS production and the muon around here gets filled up, some events get migrated to that range,
and also something that is less visible, but probably even more important is that the peaks go down.
But like 1,020%, that may not seem like a big fraction, but it actually will be relevant.
So let me just say a few quick words how we did it. It's actually very straightforward.
So we essentially divide the muon PDF this black line into um bulk part of it.
And it's less than one. And a delta function at x equals one with some uh pre factor.
Uh, it's got to be defined for left handed and right handed muons.
And you can use different some rules like the net muon number or the polarized net polarization in the beam to determine the value of C.
And then you essentially instead of having one luminosity function, you have, uh,
different luminosity functions depending on if the muons from the two beams are coming from X equal one or x is smaller than one.
And you can generate events with these things and then re consolidate them at the end.
Uh outside macro. Now we did all of this with uh, initial guess that none of this is going to matter.
We're going to do all of this and we find that, well, it's a good approximation to use, uh, muon PDF as being just a delta function.
But we found that that's not the case.
And for the models that we study, we found that actually including the non-trivial PDF could diminish the mass range to just show that in.
An extreme scenario that we did in our work.
Again, let me go back to that.
This lepton case, which is similar to one of the Fermi on portal models that I'll talk about here, I'm showing the mass of the electrons,
and green and orange are actually denoting two different signal regions that we developed using codes on ML and M2.
And I'm showing what significance these signal regions could actually discover.
These are electrons in a simple cut on count analysis at the 20 TV Million Collider.
We found that when the PDFs are not included, the dashed lines essentially,
if almost for the entire kinematic be accessible mass range, we could discover the model with significance more than five sigma.
Correct. But once we included that pdf um, which is which are these solid lines?
We go all in every for every mass we go below Five Sigma.
We went from being able to discover this model with some cuts everywhere, to not being able to discover it anywhere with the same cuts.
Uh, this just goes to show that you have to actually be careful about these,
uh, PDFs, and I have some words to mumble at the end of the talk if you want.
Why we think, what's the intuition behind this drastic effect?
But honestly, I cannot prove this. I think this, uh, effect, the dropping, the discovery significance depends on the model.
Depends on whether you actually care about the muon initial state for your production and how much you care about.
It's close to one for production and also the signal regions or the cuts that you are using.
But the upshot is that if you want to avoid worrying about this, maybe it's a good idea to include the muon part and PDF in your pipeline.
Now we actually studied this effect in a particular class, a particular class of fermions for dark matter or dark matter.
Sorry, uh, namely the freezing limit of the Fermi on portals.
So female proton models are one of the few handful of very normalizable portals to dark sector that I think,
uh, next besides wimp, uh, probably the most exciting dark matter portal for collider searches.
Um, the model is very simple at the interaction for interactions, you just add one term like this.
You have your dark matter. That coupled to any of the standard Model fermions, any of the five Q,
the fermions at the call vertex with a scalar that we call phi f that has the same charges as the Fermi um,
that's couples of dark matter two, and that's coupling.
Lambda allows the mediator to decay to missing energy, semi visibly to the missing energy and f.
And we're going to look at the limit where this coupling is very small.
The freezing limit dark matter doesn't reach equilibrium with us in the early universe.
Main reason I would like to focus on this limit is that you don't need to worry about a lot of constraining flavor constraints.
Uh, we're going to look at the reach of Attentive Muon Collider and probing this model.
As I said, I think this is a motivated dark matter model. And it makes sense to see how well Muon Collider does in looking for them.
And by studying it, maybe we find something that could inform the benchmark aspects for the detector design, as I will show in a second,
uh, because of small coupling in different parts of the parameter space, your mediator can either be promptly decaying or long live.
So you have a model with both type of signals. Um,
and also we will highlight the effect of muon perf on top of getting intuition about
some generic costs that actually end up being very useful as a muon collider.
But before that, let me actually flesh out the model in particular.
Like what parameters give us the right relic abundance that will be the target for us in the experiment.
So the dark matter abundance gets two contribution in this model from the freezing and the so-called super WIMP scenario.
What is super WIMP Phi if starts in equilibrium with the standard model is charged in a standard model gauge fields.
After a while it freezes out and then decays to Chi, and this general form has something freezing out and then decaying to dark matter itself.
We call it freeze. Super wimp. Sorry.
Um. Just like the wind gives you a specific mass for every representation that gives
you the right relic abundance for masses above that you over close the universe.
In this scenario, also, you have an upper upper bound on the mass of dark matter that I'm actually showing here.
Here I'm showing the parameter space, the dark matter mass versus the mediator mass.
In these models for the E model where f is the E fermion, and we couple chi to E in a standard model.
Um, this gray region is ruled out whether by dark matter, stability or over closure.
And the lower end of this range will be ruled out by astro observations.
Dark matter would be just too warm and washing out the structure.
I like this region. I should it goes all the way and closes the entire parameter space.
You will have a bounded parameter space and everywhere on this parameter space,
we choose the coupling lambda such that the direct freeze in contribution to the abundance gives you the right relic abundance.
Okay, so these are the values of lambda and these are very small lambda values.
So your dark matter can actually become long lived for different part of the parameter space.
Again looking at the same models and parameter space here showing the lifetime of the mediator at the top corner,
we have prompt mediator that decays quickly in the detector, but as we go to large dark matter masses,
the lifetime becomes longer and even becomes, uh, detector stable.
And just to show that these lifetimes depend on the model, this is for the E model.
For the L model, maybe the mediator has a charge and a neutral entry and a doublet.
The charge guy has lifetimes like this, which are very different.
And that's just because you have another decay channel to run off shortly.
So you kind of study. And we did a study the signals of these model in both the long lived and prompt region.
I don't have time to talk about both of them. So I'm just going to very quickly a status simple cutting counts analysis in the prompt region here.
So these are the list of processes that are relevant for us.
The decay channels uh for the scalar mediator uh,
for different models you have the decay to a W for the CO2 charge models as you two charge mediators.
And those are their production channels. So essentially we will have a per production of something that's like a square or a slept on.
And then each of them decayed to missing energy and affirmed on.
So it's just the single digits or die lepton plus MIT search and you will have background of
muon collider from here production of Z or W from FSR and RBF production of different fermions.
Uh, we play around with different kinematic cuts.
Uh, actually using cuts, using these cuts, you can very effectively throw away a lot of different background.
The invariant mass of the two visible, uh, tracks, you see, excuse me, and T2, that takes care of the WW background very well.
I mean, it's made for that background.
The opening angle between your two visible tracks is going to be very helpful, especially as you go to a large opening angle.
That means your thing about boosted and back to back, uh, mediators.
And by doing that, by using this card,
essentially you're zeroing in on the part of parameter space where you're actually using this production channel more.
Um, uh, the effect of the PDF at X going to one becomes probably important.
And the show, as I will show in the next slide,
that actually we can just develop very simple cuts with these guys that can take care of the background and discover the model.
So let me actually show you the result.
Here I'm showing the mediator mask, uh, for the new model uh, five having the same choices as you and a standard model.
And everywhere under these colored lines can actually be discovered.
Every mass under those color lines can be discovered.
The lines correspond to do different signal regions that we develop using those cuts that I should cast on the parameters that I showed.
And, um, same result for the Q model.
In both of these cases, we see that we can discover this model with those cuts.
Uh, for mass is very close to the Q pneumatically accessible limit at a ten to even one collider.
I in fact, I'm also showing how much systematics we can tolerate.
And I still have a discovery. So we found that the search could be completely systematic dominance.
Like you can have 1,000%, uh, systematic uncertainty on top of your whatever your statistical uncertainty.
And it still discover these models. So discover two large masses, um, large uh, uncertainties, systematic uncertainties are tolerable.
Maybe there will be a target for very simple I think about that. We're looking at design for a detector.
But when we look at the E model and the L model where the signal will be di lepton and MIT things changes slightly,
I mean, the cross section essentially is the main thing that goes down.
Again, we found the optimal cuts that maximizes the outreach in discovering these models.
Well, we found that we could not cover the entire climatically accessible mass range.
And really this goes down to the effect of the PDF.
Again, with or without the PDF, the cross section didn't change much,
it's just that the kinematic distribution has changed enough that we could not go all the way to higher masses with our cuts.
So that's essentially the main message maybe I wanted to get across, which is that if you want to have a viable mass reach,
uh, prediction, you have to include the muon part on PDF in your study.
And we also studied, uh, very generic and interesting in my view, model of dark matter.
And we want colliders, namely Fermi on portal. And we reported how well you can actually how far in Mexican discovered them in a müller collider.
That's all I have. Thank you. For the questions.
Richard hops. Microphones? No. In the ceiling.
So go. So, um, first, I enjoyed the talk.
Uh, second, uh, the just Me on PDFs are indeed available in Matt Medcraft.
Okay. You're available for a while. Uh, they're not under the under under the just be section of it.
And this is implemented by friction on friction as this wonderful paper that explains all this bleed out and the
statement of how you can your events actually can somewhat be proven analytically because you're taking n images,
the original number of events, and multiplying it by a number, which is a fraction.
That's amount by one, right? So anytime you include in terms of this is going to be less than.
And yeah, I mean the total cross-section, at least for the model via study didn't change much.
It was just a distribution that changes. What's happening is that you're bleeding out to super soft things.
Exactly. You're you're talking about a ten TB collider in which you're having muons be, uh, three TeV.
So you're looking at your X is about 0.6.
Right. And so what. And so you're you've just bled out because that you're populating the ten to the minus two x ten to the minus three.
And so if you were to look at the low mass stuff, you'd actually see the universe where the the low mass dark matter stuff about 100 GV,
you could go from having zero sensitivity without the PDFs to a you have 25 sigma.
So take a look at the lower masses and you'll see that you just you now have sensitivity things to the PDFs.
Yep yep. Okay I was not aware of actually that point.
We should talk more about it. And did you know about it actually no.
Okay. Yeah. We should we should chat more about it. Thank you. Yeah.
Just continue this one actually. Yeah. We try to set it correct on both metaphor up on the we we either have this
option basically for your case it's mostly coming from in ESR for this photon.
But for the only one point I want to add that I'm not sure what you are treatment for.
This is going to one limits. We can't use this kind of formula because this this part is very tricky.
I mean, it's a technical a numerical issue, right.
And also because of this integration, viable, normally you just naively do this.
So we're not good do this. So okay let me go into more details how it was done.
Uh, so the way we did it, I mean, we put it as a PDF entry with format graphs to think it's an electro PDF.
And the way you do it, everything is discretized.
So we went people have calculated these things. We especially took results from David Marshall and Sokratis.
This paper, we put it in there. We went all the way to very good.
X is very close to one, but then we didn't include the last one.
Instead we just said, okay, if you're taking away this part, we know everything else.
What should this coupling for some simulation that we are doing without any PDF be to get the right, uh, to get the right samples?
Um, so in the discrete version, I don't know,
like if there is any like anything they you with this I think the ponder I'm telling you what you are doing is reasonable,
but it's, uh, it's may not convert you that way.
And also you will get some, some I mean unstable integration issue.
Loreal. I mean, that's this numerical model for this for conceptually that's one out of the way you should do.
You shouldn't do the way that you need to do under that for it's going to one name
is right under to to to to do that a property and to to kill this divergent okay.
So this kind of artificial cutoff etc. Uh, okay.
Just because this is uh, getting bit lined up.
So from my side, I'm very interested to continue conversations.
So it would be fantastic. But let's just move to the next.
We'll talk about the fact that. You want to put up this one.
Uh, I am and and the computer is here.
So you really just I think over here on the table.
There you go. Do you think it's already done?
Okay, so it's number two. Okay. So it's somebody has done a good job.
Yeah. So our next speaker is apparently he would have been very much to.
You know. Thank you.
Okay. Our next speaker is from the attending class about axiom cubes in the connectors.
So my hobbies and my topic is, uh, search.
Have you visited at time? Uh, it's always the collaborative Instagram.
It's funny. So big. I come from Minnesota.
Uh. Okay, so so we know there are a lot of heavy ice on like particle volume and nuclear power study, right?
Uh, and uh, due to many different reasons. And one of the main reasons is that we have such, uh, multitude of high collider like,
if there is a hybrid state and we can't, it's only able to see it.
So that's that's wild and that's, you know, reason. Okay.
Um, you know, we're working. We're actually motivated as another result, which is, uh.
Are. So this is a new one.
This is not a new. You know, it's a version of us or something.
So. So basically, you know, you want to it motivates us not only but there is a final reason,
but also we can have a benchmark of how you like, how we should solve to solve some of these problems.
Okay. So so both nations result in the final results together.
So, um, you know, other, uh, more motivated.
Okay.
So, uh, so, you know, we're first in our first part, I will talk about, uh, our motivation for how you guys know how you solve a strategy problem.
Okay. So very brief. Revealed. Uh, we have some severe problem, right?
Massive heart attack from, uh, and the Sahara in general can be, uh, actually can be a real number of problem.
So if you take, say, like the one or what does it take to say to you to one plus two pi.
It's the same physics. Okay. So basically it's any number between 0 to 2 pi by five where all its volunteer course, uh, that's uh, including zero.
Okay. Start the special number. Deserve all these. And the usual, again, story of a success.
That's okay. A lot are you will have a scholar as a scholar?
Um, the scholar on a later couple.
Uh, I will how to long? Okay.
Um, so you might global glue. Glue to that on your phone that Google will turn up.
Uh, I will also say that. Plus, uh, I have posted this one, so I will look at my Hamiltonian.
I want to minimize my potential rivals without looking more stable.
Uh, it's three more things. Okay, then this one.
It will be zero, though. This one is very minimal. So busy means to us.
But give me zero. So, in front of my Twitter.
Uh, professor zero. So that's why I receive no securities on the strong sides.
But also, this offers us narrow field. Give us, uh, so-called excellent field.
And this is after we consider instrumental that the mass is actually proportional to lambda accuracy.
Square divided by the highly for, uh, new skill.
Uh, new, um, your physics call is a very heavy, uh, food.
Okay, so 24.2 GV square divided by for example.
What did you all right on will be very, very small for won't be able to, uh, measure it in the collider physics.
Okay. So how you how you measure higher.
Okay. So my reason is because landmark is it is too small.
Okay. How it makes a lambda. Because any other the larger. Uh, I'm making a lambda because kasi larger.
But of course our stomachs or we cannot already measure.
But so what we can do is actually introduce a full copy of our model sector, a know sector.
And, uh, I was thinking same exact, except, uh, about the Higgs.
The millisecond is very highly, uh, so all the mass is very high.
Okay. Once your all the quality is very heavy. You are you are running carbon and or strong carbon are for us.
Okay. Once our for us running carbon is uh, it's changed okay.
It will run very fast once it's run faster.
So that MacD in the mineral side. Very. So it's very high energy skills very hard.
It's very violent until you. Well Khalil.
Highly Max okay. So this is one of the simplest model.
Okay. So so you know actually in our study we mentioned several uh, different model.
Okay. So lots of our time for, for tunneling. And I will only give you two simple example flavors.
Hello, everybody. Okay. So another another example famous is called ISO dimension ISO model okay.
So we we actually we in fact these are for four parts one D once I have one for the uh world another one is five D right in my family.
Uh uh, how will this device measure.
Okay. So in this area we don't need to introduce any new scalar.
We only use the Yang-Mills theory. Okay. So two Yang-Mills uh gauge field one is for as long as maturity.
The other is, uh, your work. Okay. And of course, we can have a sense on this type of answer.
Okay. So how we do that, uh, we need we need a 45 I, we integrate out the the fifth dimension after what you do.
Well, the fifth dimension. Okay. So let's look at some.
Let me know if I would imagine our gauge field is from 1801234.
You have five components. But for all the components you my 43 still become the usual gauge theory that 40 Europeans here the last one.
So it's a A5. Okay. Oh sorry. The A4, the fifth component.
I should behave like a scalar. Okay. Uh, what is this color?
This color here. So I have an example here.
I have a I sound carbo tool like this sector. I have a transcendence term.
Okay. I was saying scheduling lines that you might use here. Okay. After I go to the 45, the last one, I will solve the strong safety problem.
Okay.
And the a little awkward is that 35 to see the, uh, I thought that okay, my accent is still it's just like the whole story of the mass is very small.
I need to not give me some small, small mass, because while this is a small model of the commerce, not a lot of lot.
However, in my five D theory.
Okay, you really take the five d running, uh, running cover and not after initially running going down, but little falls off.
Okay, so what happened is that I have to, uh, instead of that, why is a lot of you slow down?
A lot of the small is not that small. You sound fine. Actually. Enhance the mass of itself, I know.
Finally, our eyes are still heavy and are able to measure other.
Okay, so, uh, for more detail, you can you can take a look for that for this paper.
Okay. So now is, uh, we come to the. You know in my where I in the line scale we are we are talking about the covenant that so I have also covered
the ghetto that of course I have also generated some colorful as you talk uh gives you one considering uh,
under the the discrepancy between those Carbonell basically come from the Gage company.
Right. So if you look at, uh, this type of color here is, uh, how how different from how it is from recovering.
Sweet. So that's my ulcer cover, uh, cover.
Two plants, uh, much more of the other faithful.
So basically, the phenol part is. That's my heavy accent. What that means that it decay into that, that that one.
Okay. And so I would want to, uh, do this. I just search, uh, Collider.
Okay, so for a Hamas, uh, jet search, uh, what's the best prioritization of, you know, rights and how clean your environment of that sort of as well.
Well, Hamas. Oh, you don't either. That's right.
So, uh, so now we we talk a lot. Uh, so I don't production.
I don't either, basically, um, when you comment on the Photon Photon fusion tool,
have you asked, for example, to do that measure under, uh, was a cut, uh, analysis?
Okay.
And the second, the second, the, uh, subnetting channel is, uh, associated the production factor was on scaling this to a production, the channel.
But the difference is that for for this channel, I only talk to a jet for this two.
And I talk to that. Plus, uh, for your, uh, w photon.
Okay. So these are,
these are a off of three or both are actually reduce the it's a I a lot so I can make to make make our analysis for for this channel actually for us.
Okay so here is a production. Uh right. So basically we see the reactions on the other are smaller.
Okay. Okay. Like, you know, this here is, uh, to separate the two separate analysis.
Why is only that? Why is that X plus? Uh, Z goes on for another mode.
Okay. So the background will be different. Now, uh, we also, uh, we also look at Bible.
Right. So for VBS, uh study we have identified one which is the right one, uh, for the, for the VBS, uh, vulnerable on study on the, uh,
socio production channel where you consider, uh, we consider, uh, electroweak gauge bosons on plus that's that's standard model process.
So for this for this process, I the law of mass is so I want space is smaller.
Okay. So what happened is that, uh, you know, lower mass.
My my notes are not all sorted production possible, but the ones actually have a good sensitivity and a lower, uh,
uh, mass of that for higher mass axion is actually, uh, we have, um, some of, uh, study coming in the contribution.
So, so as we can easily see our army on either account of a huge, uh, um, um, color region, okay.
Compared to the axis of our system, our experiment.
So just to give a final conclusion, our your work basically we we gave benchmark was high because of the axle salsa.
Uh, some of the strong safety problem are also able to measure, you know, uh, off.
And the after recovery study, we, we showed that there is a huge parameter space and, uh, we don't have their cosmic problem.
So both together. Uh, for the final measurement reason altogether, I think we, well, motivates, uh, you know, for, for example, study.
Okay. Thank you. Questions.
Instead of the dusty space, you can probe, uh, decay constants.
Or even for Python SDK constant is smaller than the energy scale, and that it makes sense to use the estimate operator.
Yeah, yeah. So so so they say that this is actually not my latest.
Uh, so that's I have a oh. So basically. So the four pi r four pi.
So I like that if you, if you go lines around here around here.
Okay, so we still have a lot of parameters. I'm comparing the analyst get a collider and not the actual mathematically.
Uh, okay. So, so so what's your question? That it makes sense to.
Oh the constant thanks for back to the cut off scalar theory seems to be a sound smaller than the, uh, your 1010 db scale.
I just find it makes sense. So. Okay, so of course, the unions, you, uh, you have the.
Of course, in the usual case of Isaiah, you have have you fermions and you have new physics.
Of course, that will go in higher energy. My, my collider energy is higher than the it's higher than the FAA is problematic.
But, uh, you our case, we have different models, a model that FAA doesn't evaluate.
It's not really that new physics. Okay. So it's still about as long as my the value theorem, there is no but it is still.
So you see, the cutoff is for pi fe. I mean what they want you be.
Conclusion is, uh. My message for my face is about this lot, right?
This is the fourth platform for its flight because it's, it's it's a it's a vertical.
It's for the uh oh. You mean it's oh how far is flight?
All of a sudden I saw his ask. Asking?
You're asking if half a is smaller than the machine and.
Yeah, yeah. If if your theory is still valid to describe the phenomenon that you're talking about.
Uh, if that is the case, if there is, the model is not is not valid anymore.
So what you are doing here is I mean, the result is not what you really wanted.
Um. So yeah, I mean, it could be better, right?
You can get more stuff happening. Just don't know what to do.
So then you need another model. Sure. Um, yes.
Um, yeah, I actually actually, you see another poll we do, we do for the region, which is not valid for our comparative theory, but, uh, okay.
It's not a simple straight line. So actually, uh, uh, first off, uh, it's not a single horizontal line, actually.
Yeah, yeah. Uh, yeah, yeah. Uh, a little bit on top of that one when I showed you the crime plot.
Okay. So you have a comparison between the Munich leather screen and the Irish Sea.
I mean, maybe how do we, um. So, you know, so our final state is, in fact, right?
And actually in our. And how we, you know, how to say, okay, there's no parallax resonance.
Thank you for the, for. For for such high school.
So this one, they don't have to do that. That's right.
They can't do that. Both on they can't do that. Their parents. Oh yeah.
Oh sorry. Yeah. Those one are actually rc RC style.
So those of. Excluded region for housing stock.
On the projections for hydrogen from our state, actually.
So for halloumi you highlight how many we're getting plotted out for the year we expect and you're being cautious that all for.
22 the the over while reform of power.
So in essence the region would already be part of the region would be excluded already by the high Lumi program.
Yeah. Very very so yeah. So so it's well, yeah.
So basically that the increase is very small. Yeah. You know, take not only square root truth as well.
Uh, yes. Yes I thought also.
Yes. I'm not. Can you describe how the digit plus I mean plus met signal would be modified with the inclusion of elements that possible?
Can you describe how the digit events would be modified away from standard model expectations?
Oh how modified. Oh, so basically, uh, you know, so basically our existence are highly dependent like that.
So my idea that you have in Moscow, you have a peak.
Okay. So let's see, uh, in the background of us, uh, institute, uh, copycats, I see, uh, Isaiah Harvey, highway state.
It's. Other questions.
If not, let's. Thanks for asking. We have families of them all.
I love our nation. It's just that we. The Prince of.
Persia resisted. That is.
Great. All right. Um, great.
So thanks, everybody, for being here. So, like, as I said, I'm going to talk about, um, lepton flavor, uh,
violation of this forthcoming process and how you can really get really complimentary
views of all of the physics going on in lepton flavor at a high energy muon collider.
Um, yeah. So this is based on kind of two things, but I'm mostly going to focus on this more recent work.
Uh, that's not quite out yet, but will be in the next week or two.
Um, with with others. Who's here? Um, uh, hangman is a student at Harvard actually coming to Chicago, um, this fall.
Katie Fraser is a former Harvard student now at Berkeley, and Lou is another former Harvard student who is now at the office of NYU.
Okay. Um, so I left on flavor. So.
So when I say lepton flavor, I maybe I should just caveat for some of the people in the room that I only really mean charged lepton flavor.
Um, why lepton flavor? Uh, in the standard model, of course.
Uh, after a normalizable level, um, you know, lepton flavor, individual lepton flavor numbers are exactly conserved, right?
Muon is a muon. There's no changing between muons and electrons like there is in the in the quark sector.
Just because we only have this one Yukawa coupling that along with the charge leptons to the Higgs.
Um, uh, so so, you know, in principle, in the Standard Model, all of these processes should just vanish.
Anything that violates lepton flavor should be exactly zero.
Uh, but we know that it's not really exactly zero because we've measured neutrino masses and seen their oscillations.
And that gives us a kind of a very, very, very small lower bound that there has to be some amount of lepton flavor violation in nature.
Um, and as theorists, you know, anytime we see one of these things where we have, uh, something that looks like a symmetry,
but we know it's not really a symmetry, well, at that point, we shouldn't expect that it's really a symmetry anymore.
As soon as we start throwing new physics in the game.
And it could be, you know, essentially all the way up to, uh, the current bounds or a small or sorry, this should be a ten to the -54.
So, you know, at the very, very minimum,
it happens at these vanishingly small rates that come in proportional to the neutrino masses, um, that we would never, ever see.
But again, really, as soon as we start thinking about BSM, we don't have any reason to expect it to be this small.
It could be, you know, something. If we see an experiment. Um, you know, even today.
Um, so this is just an excellent place to kind of search, uh, broadly for, for new physics.
Uh, that may be related to the neutrino masses or just, you know, part of some bigger underlying theory.
Um, and this is particularly interesting today, uh, because there's a lot of, you know, forthcoming low energy searches for lepton flavor violation.
So I've been showing this plot that was from the last European strategy.
Now for, for years. Um, but of course, at the time it was 2018.
And so they have these kind of timelines of things that were coming. Uh, now, of course, we're we're here.
Uh, some of these timelines have moved a little bit over the last few years, but not all of them.
And so there are actual searches for charged lepton flavor violation that are setting new,
uh, tighter, more stringent bounds and all of these processes that are coming around that,
uh, this magnitude result, uh, searching for a mutated gamma, um, just came out a couple months ago,
improved the limit on mutated gamma by by a factor of two or so.
They're going to continue taking more and more data. We should expect more results from them in the next year or two.
Um, that pushed this bound down even even more. Um, and at the same time, it's not featured in this,
but there's kind of complementary things going on because Bell, too is also pumping out new results.
And they're now kind of, you know, at the point where they're at or exceeding the luminosity we had from, uh, from the original Bell experiment.
Um, and these bell Bell has tons of data that can test, uh, a whole bunch of different exotic tower decays.
And so you can look for things like, uh, tower to three music or tower to an E and to muse a whole bunch of different flavor.
Uh, final slides here. I just showed, uh, one example again, that just came out a couple of weeks ago for, for one of these exotic cow decays.
Uh, and Bell has like a percentage, something of its final total, uh, integrated luminosity.
So all of these bands are going to improve by, by orders of magnitude in the next few years.
These are things that are happening is happening now. So they're really exciting. Okay.
Um. So as soon as we start thinking about these kind of things, we should think about what?
New physics. They're kind of right. And here I think there's kind of broadly two approaches that you can do.
One is you can try to write down some kind of model that maybe says something about flavor physics, uh, you know,
has some kind of new states, and you can just go and calculate, you know, what are their contributions to these kind of things?
What does this all look? And so we'll talk very briefly about, uh, this slightly older work with, with Shinshu and Matt Rees.
Um, you know, for an example of this where you have a supersymmetric theory, uh, and,
you know, the extra states that appear around the TV scale violate lepton flavor,
but there's some kind of suppression built in so that they're not immediately ruled out by all
of these precision probes and how you can kind of measure all of this stuff in a muon collider.
Uh, and then I'm going to take a different approach, an effective field theory approach where I just assume,
okay, all of this stuff is happening at some high scale. I don't know what's going on with flavor physics there.
Uh, but I can try to consider some general set of lepton flavor by leading interactions involving the Standard Model leptons,
uh charged particles, uh, charged ions and Higgs. Right.
Uh, and this is what's, what's in the more recent paper. And so I'm going to mostly focus on that, that one.
Uh, but I'm going to talk very, very quickly about this one first. Good.
Um, so having flavorful. The new physics at the TV scale. There we go.
I don't get it. Um, so if you have flavorful new physics at the TV scale, again, you're pushed down by these really, really sensitive probes.
And so if you want to do something where you introduce in the mSSM, what happens is you have new leptons,
uh, their masses, you know, you have a partner for the electron, the muon in the Tao, the leptons.
Um, but their mass matrix doesn't necessarily have to be diagonalized in the same basis that the charge leptons, um, masses are all diagonalized.
And so in principle, you get these sources of lepton flavor violation.
If it's really a TV, you might think that these low energy probes are ruling these out immediately.
But there's this kind of super gem mechanism is what it's sometimes called in the Susy context,
where these things can get suppressed not only by this, this mixing angle,
which might not be that small, um, but also by the mass floodings,
this leptons that they're getting most of their mass from one other source of Susy breaking.
Uh, then their mass splitting is very, very small.
And their contributions to tell of, uh, processes are actually are actually very, um, vanishingly tiny.
And here I'm just showing kind of, you know what, the next several decades, uh, there's several rounds of projects looking at these,
um, low energy probes kind of probe in this parameter space where I've put in some, you know, bigger mass splitting, um, um, by hand.
And you can see that kind of push down in this kind of thing. Okay.
Um, and the good news, though, is that if you have these things there at the TV scale, you can avoid these probes.
But then the high energy muon collider, you would just produce these things, right? You would just produce this charged leptons, um, on shelf.
And not only, you know, do you produce them. You can actually measure their masses.
You can measure how much they mix with each other. You would never discover the new leptons in these flavor violating final states,
but you measure them in their flavor concerning final, flavor conserving final states,
you know, measure the spectrum and actually really kind of gain insight into what's what's going on with,
uh, with supersymmetry breaking and how it's interacting with flavor.
Um, there's a lot of kind of fun physics that comes into this.
But here you can see that the muon collider reach really cuts, you know, across this parameter space in a really, really complimentary way.
Um, so that was very quickly on just kind of this, you know, lower energy, explicit model kind of thing.
And now I'm going to talk more about this, the CFT approach.
Um, so if I go to the standard model EFT, uh, and just look at dimension six, you know, what operators can I write down the violate lepton flavor?
Uh, I'm going to make the caveat that I'm not going to consider four fermion operators that also include quarks,
because then you can have a whole bunch of extra ones.
Uh, there is actually a recent study, I think this appeared in the European strategy submission for, for muon Collider.
People looking at these because I think they're super interesting to, um, you know,
where you can have lepton flavor violating decays from, say, like a cookie bar tally or something like this.
Uh, I'm going to look at just the pure charged lepton flavor violating states.
And then there's only nine operators, um, ignoring the flavor indices.
They fall into a couple different buckets. There's these dipole operators, um, which in some sense are the least interesting ones.
I think for these, uh, they get the strongest kind of constraints.
Um, but the new physics that matches on to these and the way that you can constrain them in colliders is never really super, super interesting.
Uh, there's one that is essentially just, uh, modification of the Higgs, you call it, so you can introduce, you know,
the Higgs is diagonalized in the interactions are diagonalized in the same basis as the masses in the standard model.
But you can have this operator. And if it violates, uh, lepton flavor, you can have a Higgs to a movie or a Utah coupling.
Um, that that might be small, uh, that you could look for.
Um, there's these things that essentially just lead to the time gauge or the time gauge Higgs couplings that changes,
change the interactions between, um, the charge leptons and the Z's and the Higgs.
Uh, and then you have for fermion interactions, and those are the kind of thing open to us where, you know,
you're imagining something heavy, you're integrating out, and you're you get all of these different kind of things.
So it's really just these four buckets of, of things that you could try to do.
And I'm just going to focus on these last three. Okay.
Um, so if I write down these operators, you know, I assume that some new physics, uh, at a much,
much higher scale, you integrate it out, you generate these operators out parameter of scale.
Uh, how do they appear in these low energy experiments? Uh, now I want to match down on to the, the DFT that it's valid for these kind of things.
Um, and to evaluate all of these low energy bounds, what we did is we just took this whole suite of things,
we matched onto the low energy effective field theory, and we ran down to the relevant, uh, you know,
either muon or tao, uh, mass scale, where you can look at these things and it's important that, you know,
I should say, you know, the four fermion operators match on to four fermion operators below the weak scale.
But everything else, you have to start thinking at higher and higher loops, right?
So these operators like CHL one or CHL three, the lot time gauge ones, those don't immediately give you things that you can see at low energy.
They don't give you these dipole operators, uh, tree level. But at one loop they, they, uh, contribute to all of these.
The four frame operators also come to that. Uh, the power operators don't really give you any meaningful contributions at one loop,
but they give you a two loop contribution that has either a W or a top mass in it and actually ends up not being that suppressed.
And so this two loop contribution from the Su, how it like operator, uh, is actually super, super important.
So you can do all of these and then just evaluate what the balance from, from all of these precision experiments look like.
Uh, for the general set of, of smashed interactions at the TV scale.
Um, and now you can ask, what can you actually do with these kind of things that a muon collider.
So first, if you're just thinking about this Higgs Yukawa thing, uh, again,
that leads to modified interactions of the Higgs that leads to flavor violating couplings of the Higgs to charge leptons.
You can look for these and Higgs decays.
This is done at the LHC, of course, but at the muon Collider you have the benefit of producing a ton of Higgs and you have a much,
much, much cleaner background, right?
Um, for me, we actually have shown first, uh, for mu e um, you know, the clean background actually doesn't make much,
much of a difference because it mu in and out of the LHC is pretty clean.
Final state. Um, for all of the other things involving towers of hadronic tao,
you get a lot of backgrounds from having, say, our production at the LHC that really swamp this thing.
It makes it hard to look for. Um, but so here what we did is we just took all of these things.
We ran this kind of full detector simulation for all of the Higgs couplings.
So. So I can follow what is why, uh, why.
Sorry. Yeah. Why is there, like, the Yukawa coupling of the Higgs in the same.
You know, we're the topic of this one. This demonstrates that.
Yeah. Yeah. This messed up right around the. It's on the opposite axis.
Yeah. I'm, I'm focusing on here because this is, you know, this is a totally valid thing.
Even if you ignore this math in its validity or any of this.
Right. It's really just a bound on the off diagonal coupling of the Higgs. Yeah.
Um. It's good. So we did this kind of full detector simulation, included all of the backgrounds.
Um, not a folder I tell for simulation.
Did all of the backgrounds, um, and then just see, you know, what can you actually do for looking for these final states?
Um, we find, again, the Mu is not so impressive.
You actually can't see the LHC line because it's perfectly under this red line from the ground collider.
Uh, but for mute, for telling you and how he final states, you get an order of magnitude improvement on what hl LHC is located.
Right? And that's just from having more Higgs and having a cleaner, uh, cleaner set of backgrounds.
And I should say this is, you know, assuming pretty, I think, pessimistic, um, you know, performance for how how good your resolution for,
for reconstructing the towers in the leptons is going to look like, because this is kind of the, the first path.
So what Adelphia simulation. That's right. It's not the, you know, the real future detectors.
All right. Um, so that's very, very good. And I think this is a really, really interesting limit.
It sets a lot of, you know, bounds on kind of lepton flavor, uh, physics beyond the Standard Model.
Um, but there's other things you can do that are really, you know, not just, you know, a good environment and things that are nice to me on Collider.
Uh, there's kind of unique, high energy problems if you start thinking about these other operators.
So if I write down one of these, you know, like Higgs current, uh, operators that modify the gauge interactions, I can write down processes like this.
Right. Uh, and really, you can think about this as kind of like the W and a photon or Z scattering and producing these things.
But you can just computer this, this whole process here and here.
I have some lepton flavor violating final state, uh, plus a Higgs, um, and a Higgs can generally be at really, really high at high end.
Um, the only background to process is like, that's because the lepton flavor is conserved in the Standard Model.
The only way to get these different flavor of leptons is if you produce, say,
two W's and have them decay in different ways or two towers and have this how to get to a muon or electron?
Um, but all of those come with extra neutrinos in the final state, and they really look nothing like these kind of high energy scattering processes.
Right? And so it's really trivial to set up some, you know, pretty basic nuts that reduce the background noise down to the,
you know, order one or so background, uh, background event model.
Um, and then you can, you know, probe all of these things and get really, really great sensitivity to all of these.
Here's just an example of like, you know, what a set of what this would actually look like with the scale set of ten TV.
And you're gonna see this is really easy to pick up the signal. Right.
Um, there's a similar process goes to Tao that does essentially the same kind of thing and, you know, probes a complementary set of operators.
Um, the other thing you can do, if you think about the four fermion operators, this was alluded to in the talk yesterday, as you know here,
you benefit from the fact that if you have this four fermion interaction, uh,
it grows like that's right, relative growth, uh, growth in the center of mass energy.
And so the signal ends up being peaked way out here.
You know, if you have the DT of the muon and the Tao in the new, that system is really, really, really boosted.
And again, the backgrounds are where how tall or something with extra neutrinos.
They just look nothing like the signal. And this rate can be huge, right.
Um, and there's essentially zero backgrounds at the end. Uh, and this easily beats the sensitivity from things like tout a three meter K, which,
you know, you can just think of the diagram going this way is the same underlying process.
Um, so here's just a comparison of where everything is, you know, compared to the low energy constraints.
The dipole operators, like I said earlier, are not really interesting for all of the other ones.
One of these kind of low, uh, high energy probes is always going to beat the current sensitivity and be sensitive to about,
you know, the best that you could possibly expect from the, uh, the next generation of low energy experiments, or for these four fermion interactions,
they're just going to, you know, much, much, much higher skills. Uh, that they're probably.
Yeah. Um, so it's really, you know, nice set of clean, um, discovery potential.
The last few slides are just kind of showing, you know,
you can put these things in different things and kind of understand the structure more than just getting.
This one measurement. Uh, and here are the last thing I'll show is just, you know, that what you really want to do is compare.
The best probes at low energy are things like beauty transitions.
And Collider is really probing, mostly muted transitions.
And actually comparing those things 1 to 1 requires some insights about what lepton flavor violation looks like beyond the Standard Model.
Um, we don't really have very many good ansatz of what that could actually look like.
Uh, but you can see here these are different kind of choices. Um, you know, how these things kind of stack up, uh, depending on what that looks like.
You know, the mu tau transitions to the most important enemy on Collider is really probing a bunch of new ground.
Um, and I will leave it on my summary slides there some. Ask a question?
Sure. Uh, why didn't you look at Kamala? Divided city in Q or in Q?
Uh, that, uh, these are the ones that, uh, usually charge local labor organization.
So are those different than this? Is this.
So can you repeat what operators clearly do?
Violating operators like to lock onto parks?
Uh, sorry. Yeah. I mean, partly just for simplicity, because then there's a lot of them.
But to lock to to locked onto parks within, I guess you can do different types of structures in there.
Yeah. The only reason was because I was literally looking for constraints on them.
Uh, yeah. So there are some. So here this is just a link to the giant 400 page ESPN report.
But there's a section in there on flavor where I think they do look at some of these.
I mean, what no collider could get. No. Sorry. Yeah. That's what I mean.
This is this is the new one. Collider uh, submission. And they have, you know, these things the bounds are pretty similar.
Right. Because it's again, it's Mew Mew who goes to two parks and two parks that that new on Collider.
It's you know they're really high energy. Um, so they don't look like anything else.
And so the bounds are probably pretty similar to, uh, to what I put here.
Okay. Yeah. Um, one factor is thrown in if I'm reading this correctly, you're saying for,
uh, uh, for left operator operators, the reach with the of the order of 280.
Yeah. Ballpark. Yeah. Okay. Thank you. Sorry.
First, uh, on your slide, 13 had this really cool process with, uh, Higgs permission.
Uh, it was a little too quick. I couldn't catch it. He's been reach for this.
Better than Higgs decay complementarity. It's it's complementary because this.
So this this, like Higgs boson. Mu tao, uh, thing is induced by, like, this kind of operator Y of like an h dagger d mu h times a lepton current.
The Higgs decays are really only probing. Um.
This operator where it's this is a Yukawa coupling. And then, you see, I cannot invert that diagram.
I cannot get a Z move to find.
Oh, good. I could look for for a Higgs to a that I didn't think about, I guess.
I mean, in principle, you could do it. I would bet that this is a better approach.
Um, just because everything is high energy. Uh, yeah.
Uh, the on principle, you could look for for that with the Z to reject.
So I'm a little confused a couple of your students.
So let me ask this question, um, to how do you treat the tell in your simulations, in your modeling?
I mean, the Taos or are you not, uh, we are decaying the Taos.
Um, we consider only we just only consider the hadronic final states.
Okay. So then so all of these things have some efficiency for how?
Well, a jet. It's a jet. It's a jet. Yeah.
Yeah. Because the neutrino that's your end, you're saying.
And so then this is I'm still a little confusing because you're saying that you don't have many backgrounds,
but, you know, you you will have jet some standard model jets at TV scales that will look like this shortly.
This is just going to be a light jet that's misidentified as a towel.
Yeah. So you also are saying things like there's not met but we're talking about TV scale met.
So I'm a little good. Yeah I should be a little bit more careful I guess.
Right there is met in all of this. Had any any time decay involve some summit.
Um, you know, we accounted for all of it. You know, we actually run these things through it.
We have the Taos decay, and then we cluster them in Delphi's and do it.
And so all of it and and then the backgrounds, we include all of the ones with, with jets and stuff like that.
So, so they're all it's all included. But I did gloss over it really, really quickly.
Um, I should say I did leave it on one of my summary slides that it is crucial that you can tag the Taos.
Um, what we did was essentially just assume that the performance is going to look roughly like it does at the LHC.
Um, which is pretty good, right? I mean, the the light quarks being misidentified as tall jets is it's a small mass tagging rate.
And the efficiency for that reconstruction, um, is taking rate times 10 trillion, billion larger rate.
You know, it's not going to be on Collider though. Right. And again and again, you know, for really, really, really hard jets.
And usually you only have one and it's recoiling against someone or something like that.
So that's that's the point, right? I mean, if you had multiple quarks maybe I, I absolutely this needs to be have multiple.
What's that color conservation says you'll have to have multiple. Yeah that that's my point right.
Whereas here I just have one tangent. That's that's that's my point.
Right. Um, and so you know, the backgrounds where you get a single.
Yes, yes. That's right.
So, so I think the bigger backgrounds are probably more like things where instead of just, you know, having a, a bunch of like quarks or something,
you know, the W can decay hydroponically and then it's really like your tau versus your hadronic w, uh, misidentification.
Um, when these things are super, super, super boosted, um, and that's where you're never going to get more boosted in the tail.
That's a pencil. Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly.
Um, but that's something, you know, I don't know what the performance looks like at an actual muon collider detector.
So we assumed the Atlas rates, and then the delta r plots make the delta.
Okay. That's that's that's fair. We should we should we should do this. Yeah.
Um, yeah. But good. Thanks. Thanks for the question and answer. You had a couple of questions and I know, but I'm satisfied.
I'm not sure. Okay. Let's. Thanks.
Uh, some. So the last video description is additional.
You can also choose from all of us here, plus reading the headlines into the text.
Are you sure you're surprised at all this insight?
All right. Uh, thank you for being here. And thank you for the invitation.
Uh, so basically what I'm going to talk about is.
Uh, so what I'm going to talk about is basically aspects of electric scimitar restoration at a high energy collider.
So this is very much still a work in progress with, uh, Matthew first and then Neil and uh, Patrick mean.
So, uh, the idea here is as we go higher and higher in greater energy, for example, like ten DV Collider,
uh, we're probing physics far above the electroweak symmetry breaking scale, up to 46 GB.
So at this energy, we can, uh, estimate the cross, uh, the cross sections where I can take the mass of the W's in the z h to be zero,
or in other words, uh, ammo, where it starts becoming very small as I take the energy to higher and higher.
Uh, essentially what I can say that, uh,
the massive amplitudes that we detect in our colliders should start converging to the massless amplitude predicted by a standard model.
And what I mean by massless amplitude is take the vector zero from the corresponding Lagrangian, find amplitude.
So in that sense, uh, test of convergence is, uh, what we are trying to achieve.
And uh goal is to impose an equivalence which states that, uh, longitudinal uh modes of W and Z should correspond to the Goldstone amplitudes.
Uh uh, with some m over e corrections are interesting,
because what we eventually want to talk about is, uh, is the symmetries that the scalars in the U.
V theory, which is not necessarily, uh, predicted by low energy physics from, say, perturbative unitarity and other methods.
So that's why we want to, uh, specifically talk about Goldstone equivalence.
So, uh, just to give you an outline of the talk, uh, I will, but, um,
most of it I will try to define and quantify what I mean operationally by restoration.
And uh, in the last part we will talk about can we observe that, uh, in a main collider,
which I think is going to be very important because if it's has if it's to work, I think precision is going to be very important eventually.
Uh, tests for convergences. That's all I have then.
Okay. So I'm going to actually spend a quite a bit of time talking about Goldstone Rosen equivalence,
which I know very all of you are very familiar with probably are familiar with the diagram because I took it from.
That's good.
Uh, but it's basically one version of it states that, uh, if you have an external state on show w longitudinally polarized at high energy level,
it should correspond to exactly the goals from both amplitude.
Plus you have moderate corrections and which this specifically is true for spontaneously broken things.
Okay. Uh, and if you're more interested in goals from both on equivalence and try to actually see the equations.
So I'll actually talk a bit about it. So, so once at the intermediate stage you will see you get something called generalized board identity which
states that if you replace the polarization of W by its momentum and contract with the rest of the amplitude,
this will exactly equal mass of the w times the w replaced by its corresponding constant constant.
So this is called generalized identity because if you take the mass goes to zero limit,
it becomes exact or the identity of the Q and a very 32nd hand-wavy proof of that is just look at the standard Yang-Mills structure on shell,
which is true for standard model.
Uh, so if you have three massive vector bosons and just replace one of the polarization by its momentum and contract with it,
you will see it's exactly proportional to mass when everything is on shell.
So this is satisfied at the three point uh level for on shell.
And then you can just, uh,
use an analytic continuation and prove that this since all the input and amplitude can be constructed on shell from three points,
this, uh, generalized order of three points to generalized one amplitude, that force set is, uh, just a quick proof of this statement.
Okay. And uh, from there, uh, uh, goes on, goes on.
It's just a one step proof.
Because now if you have a longitudinal vector boson, you have its polarization, which you can decompose as momentum plus and m over x.
This momentum by generalized for that entity would correspond exactly to the Goldstone amplitude.
And the z mu part would be multi corrections.
And from this sense what we try to what we mean by convergence is that this is what you detect in a collider.
This Goldstone part is going to be predicted from standard model by taking p equals zero limit.
And this delta p is the difference in what we are trying to quantify as a convergence.
So we want to see we have an exact convergence when it's zero and we're not an exact convergence.
And I'll talk a bit more about it. Okay. So what do we need to test.
I talked a bit about convergence as a first test. So you want to test low energy physics converging to the standard model physics by
taking zero limit from standard model you can using goals from those in equivalence.
But there are other aspects of it which I will talk about. And that is if you really, uh, follow through.
Uh, this, uh, this last step of proof, not nowhere here.
I talked about goals, uh, spontaneously broken,
symmetry breaking because the statement of goal equivalence has nothing to do with spontaneously broken, uh,
symmetry breaking is just a statement of, uh, the decoupling of the three degrees of freedom to two longest,
uh, two transverse plus, uh, decouples different degrees of freedom.
Uh, what do you need?
Uh, if you have a proper, I think, uh, uh, restoration, uh, statement from three level amplitudes to talk about the symmetries of the scalars,
the three Goldstone balls on plus the Higgs, because then all four multiplied, uh, in the Standard Model.
So we eventually should also be trying to see, uh, can we test that sort of hope for convergence at the UV theory, uh, from our test collection?
Okay. And a final aspect is that since everything is massless, eventually you will have transverse,
uh, your mass vector boson, uh, sorry, massless vector boson to satisfy gauge symmetry.
So can we have a test for that? So for most of the collider part we will actually be dealing with this.
But what I would like you to talk about that uh, touch on it a bit.
So. Okay. So, uh, my main inspiration for our work for restoration came from this paper by Zen and Yang Bliss and others,
uh, where they define, uh, restoration by, uh, signal strength.
They call me. Uh, so here. But what they do is they compute the goals on amplitude by taking that to zero limit.
And then you have this part from model that you see in the detector.
And then the idea is you have this mirror should be an exact should exactly go to one.
If you have an exact illustration predicted by standard model, whereas this would deviate from one if you have other.
So that's how they quantify image restoration by a ratio of course, to an amplitude by uh uh, background uh, which is longitudinal.
And uh, but they specifically focus on uh, VH amplitude.
And there is a reason behind that, uh, why they focus on VH amplitude is that if you go to a high energy limit,
you will soon figure out that the VH amplitude, the transverse modes, they are one over s squared s, so only the longitudinal modes survive.
So that's one of the reason. So the cross sections basically are dominated by longitudinal modes for the eight states.
So they're basically levels should be goes up uh at time.
So for real colliders, our first, uh, obvious thing to do was to see if we can do the same for me and colliders for same channel.
So we did a detector analysis, and what we found out is that if you have a Z decaying electronically, uh, you get, uh,
at one PB of, uh, Higgs equals mass and you find you have a loss of resolving powers and you get a large integral.
And similarly, if you try to do for jets, it turns out the precision is not good enough to test for convergences.
So that's why we didn't initially we focused on the w w channel.
I thought, I'll talk about, uh, detector analysis,
but we find out you can have a good precisions to focus on the WW channel for collider analysis and test for restoration.
Okay. Before I move on to, uh.
And we had to talk about this yesterday.
But before I move on to actually detect, uh, climate analysis in full detail, I'll talk about the other aspect of symmetry restoration,
which is, uh, as I said, in the transport sector, you should have a restoration of gauge symmetry.
And they pointed out very nicely, is that, uh, for massless theory, uh, you your amplitudes should have an exact zero.
When you have gauge symmetry, which is called the radiation zero, and you will not be an exact zero.
And you have two methods. So what they try to do is have a very specific kinematics zero that is predicted for gauge symmetry.
So you can try to predict, uh, try to see if that happens.
And the other aspect of it that I want to talk about is that in standard model you have the three Goldstone bosons of the WS,
that V and the Higgs, they should be reconstructed should become a little more.
Uh, you mentioned that you v theory, and one way to check for that is to take ratios, uh, just to see if you compute the ratios of, say,
W and zl from, say, fermions and w and h, it should exactly be one, because there is an O four symmetry between the Goldstone terms see and Higgs.
So that's why it's one. And similarly you can have a very specific O for pairs from other ratios H and H.
Uh, so a test of ratios, even though we don't do that, I think eventually would be a good test for a proper test of symmetry restoration.
But I do want to state, uh, make two comments in here. Is that just two ratios would I don't think would not be enough because, uh,
eventually you should also do h-h ratios where the Higgs triple coupling that the Higgs coupling comes in.
And, uh, so a proper for restoration test, which should include other and exhaustive ratios.
And uh, then the other aspect I think would be a very interesting study is that these are shifts, a variable predicted from standard model.
But how does an FDR operator shift this? Uh, predictions?
All right, that I will start, uh, talk about, uh, collider analysis and, uh, uh, basically beyond on analysis, as I say.
Uh, we focus on mu mu 2WW.
So if you compute the tonic cross section, you will figure out that at higher energy limit, it's dominated by transverse modes.
But we are eventually interested in the longitudinal modes.
So and that uh, the uh the uh it has been comes from the T channel or what enhancement of the transformer to the teacher.
And that's meant it has been for the transverse modes. And so the way to filter that, that are the students make a backward selections.
And once you do that you'll see the ratio goes from 100 to 1 10th.
So we kind of isolate the uh the longitudinal most that we are more interested in.
So that's shown in here.
And, uh, another, uh, thing about collider analysis, uh, one is that, uh, we need to scan over the entities to show some sort of, uh, restriction.
So we need to scan over the energies. And the way to scan over energy is we include, uh, additional gamma, and we would, uh, tag the gamma.
And from the energies of the gamma, we would scan over different energies for, uh, cross-sections.
And, uh, for, uh, event topologies. Uh, what we are, uh, what we are interested in is, uh, w with XM electronically.
And there is a reason behind that is that we need to have some sort of, uh, I mean,
we cannot afford chips in this case because we need to have some sort of forward tag and kind of figure out which,
uh, w is speaking or have some sort of charge ID you have, uh, have a backwards to think.
Okay. Uh, so the the backgrounds are basically listed in here, which are mostly PVC induced backgrounds,
but it turns out after we make the cuts, they are, uh, almost negligible, uh, compared to the signal.
And, uh, and the final comment in here is that, uh, uh, we're interested in showing restorations.
We're interested in high energy physics so that they're produced at high energies,
for sure, but the decay products are happening at a lower energy scale.
So we have to somehow isolate the physics. And the way we do it, uh, is by unfolding.
So we do, uh, as I want to mention, we include a full detector analysis, uh,
have the full hadron, uh, virtual shower and vibrations and, uh, detector effects.
And, uh, so we have to first compute the efficiency metric to unfold back to crude level.
We do, uh, compute efficiency matrices for forward and backward separately.
And once we do that, we unfold back by maximizing log likelihood to have an unfolded,
uh, spectrum for our distribution after we have reconstructed events.
But this is the final, uh, plot that I want to show.
This is, as I said, the work is still very preliminary.
Uh, so detector works are still being done, but it shows that we can indeed have some, uh, um, some test of convergence.
Uh, and I'm excited. So this is specifically, uh, one GeV collider.
Um, the blue in here is basically w l uh, includes w l w l w t and wtw t.
But because we are focusing on the backward regions is dominated by the signal and the.
This line in here is the Goldstone prediction. So where you replace the the w l by its corresponding Goldstone bosons.
And you can see you have uh you can see at least some sort of convergence.
But if you go ahead and find the comment here is that, uh, this shaded region is statistical, uh, uncertainty.
So, uh, just to conclude that, uh, the divine, uh, restoration,
at least initially by a test of convergence and as test of convergence, we see, uh, we can do at a miracle, either as shown in here.
But just to give you an idea of what we are trying to do is to generalize this,
uh, to 3DV and ten DV, you know, leading into a whole chapter analysis.
I think, uh, another give you an outlook.
Uh, I think this would be very interesting to see how this math and have, uh, affects the cross section test that I talked about.
And this is a completely unrelated, but I think it's, uh, what we're also doing is how to see the golden equivalence and then also descriptions.
And if you, we can have some computation of context from a different perspective of describing goals from both.
Any goals. That's a separate, uh, project. Uh, so here I would like and thank you very much for listening and.
Yeah. Questions?
I've been trying. Can you go to a slide down, please?
All right. I'm going to pick on Ian and again.
Um, so I'm not sure. I'm not convinced.
I'm not sure that the I about the power counting here.
Because when you go to k the longitudinal motions or the transverse bosons, um,
if you then compare this to the polarization vector that you show just a couple slides before,
it is when the WS are easier to decaying to massless leptons, which is, you know, what we're going to do.
Um, then you're going to select out the mass over energy term polarization.
And the polarization vector contracts with the current. You don't select out the Goldstone part, you're selecting the mass over energy.
Otherwise it's proportional to the left hand mass. So that means that at the deep halo the longitudinal uh amplitudes pick up factors of mass over
energy to the like the fourth power or s squared relative to the transverse at the decay level.
So on that I wouldn't. I'm not sure this is the right power counting at the production level.
Sure this is the right power counting, but when you then take this to the decay level, the longitudinal is relatively,
uh, suppressed by the mass over the energy terms that you're showing a couple sites here.
I mean, I can see what I can show. This is true at the, at this level.
And I can have some comment on the detector level, what happens.
So maybe I just add the decay a little bit. But you do you go to the polarization vector that you're showing.
Yeah. Here. Yeah. Multiply this because it's a 1 or 2 body decays.
So it's a fermion current. So you just multiply the female current by the first term.
By the Dirac equation you get mass over mass. And so you know that's KB over GV.
And then the other one it's going to be something that goes like mass over the energy times the energy.
So okay. All right. But, uh, I mean, they I'm just.
I don't want to say anything, but they did make a plot like this. I don't know where they did the full detector, but I think, you know, they did it.
Now I hear you. Okay. I don't want to, um.
Yeah, but I think you were. I think it was a year later. Plots. I think you're seeing that it was actually more quarter of the gold.
So that's, that's that's the reason why it's more difficult than they say.
All right. Thank you so much for that. I get questions.
If not, let's find the final speaker.
