# PM:  Accelerator: Parallels

Uh, so once he has miked up, uh, we'll have a talk from Victus on the demonstrator overview, and then we will have a talk from Emma.
And then after that, we have a lovely 50 minute discussion time where we can talk about all the things that we keep inside our heads.
Um, I guess about the demonstrator, um, I guess about accelerator in general, given that this is the accelerator session.
Okay, ready? Uh, it's good. Right? You can hear me.
Uh. All right, so, uh, this talk will be about the demonstrator overview.
Um. Let's make, uh.
Let's see. Maybe that's better if you keep your head down.
Is great. Okay. All right.
Um, try putting an open question. Uh. Let's see.
That's it. Let's see. Let's see here.
Okay, so, um, I hope you can hear me now.
So, uh, I would like to, uh, say a few things about the, um, demonstrator, its motivation, and, um, what we are and what are our, uh, future plans?
Um, so, uh, just to remind you that, uh, here, uh, on the picture on the top, uh, you can see the different subsystems,
uh, of immune collider and, uh, the one that one has, I would say perhaps the most importance, uh, is the cooling.
Uh, you can see this also on this table here.
Uh, this is actually from, uh, Vladimir's talk. Uh, you can see that the cooling has the biggest impact in luminosity of a collider.
So it's very, very important.
But this system works the way you want it to work, because otherwise, uh, the the you might not receive the event product that you like to see.
So, uh, also, the cooling has a lot of impact in other subsystems as well.
For example, uh, if you cool the beam very well, uh, perhaps you can relax the parameters for the proton driver.
Okay. You don't need to go to very, very high powers.
Uh, and also, by relaxing the proton driver parameters, you also relax the parameters for the target as well.
So you see it's sequential. So therefore cooling is very very, very important.
So you have to make sure, uh, it works well. So uh, this is the baseline right now for the cooling system.
Uh, this is uh, the most recent design from the International Muon Collider collaboration.
So you can see you can see it right here. Uh, it's not a trivial system.
Uh, it has about one kilometer length, and it has about 3000, uh, uh, magnets.
Uh, and of course, it has also a lot of RF. Okay.
Which I don't have this information. I don't have it here. Uh, but if I, uh, if I stand the magnets, uh, not all the magnets will have the same field.
This field starts at 2.5 Tesla. However, at the end, it goes 14.3 Tesla.
So you don't need only to have many magnets, but you have many high field magnets as well.
And also, uh, the bore of this magnet also varies goes from 1.5m at the beginning and it's 90mm at the end.
So what I want to say here, long story short, is that the the cooling system is a very complicated system but requires uh,
but mixes RF coils, uh, absorbers and also, uh, the beam itself.
Uh, a few more words about cooling. So this is the baseline, uh, cooling requirement for immune collider.
You have seen this thing many times. One thing I would like to remind you is whether the beginning of a channel.
Uh, this is one. So, uh, things look very relaxed and peaceful.
So you have a coil here of yellow that is very far away from the RF cavity, and therefore cavities are very far away from the absorbers.
And the field is about two Tesla. Okay. Nice and beautiful.
However, at the end of a, uh, cooling section, uh, so right here, uh, you have this monster.
Okay, so now not only the cell is this much smaller.
Okay. Keep here. It's. You are 2.6m. Here you are, 2.8m.
Something very compact. But also the field, uh, is of the order of 14 Tesla.
And you have many, many, many coils. Okay. Just this cell.
It has six coils. Okay. And you have about 50 or 100 cells that look like this.
Uh, and also most coils are very close to each other.
And also this coils here, see the neighbor coils us here.
But I do not have. Okay. So there is a lot of things going on here.
You have strong magnets forces stresses a lot of issues.
Also the coils are very close to various cavities.
All right. So this is also could be a challenge how you put this thing all together and of course be absorbed as well.
So this particular cell uh is quite uh engineering wise not so easy to make.
Okay. So that's why it's very, very important.
Uh, if we want to go for the main collider to have knowledge and experience how to make something like that.
Now, uh, one particular aspect that is unique, uh, for the Muon Collider is what was it?
Because you have high fields, you have to rely on normal conducting cavities.
You cannot use superconducting at if it will not work.
So, uh, one big issue at least it was a big issue 15 years ago, uh, is that we had some data, but we are left cavities.
Uh, don't operate well in magnetic fields.
In fact, when we were opening the cavities after the experiment, we were seeing a lot of damage in the cavity.
Okay. Which we couldn't really explain.
Uh, also, when we measure the gradient, uh, versus field, we were seeing a reduction of a gradient of a field by more than 50%.
You started with 40 megabits per meter, you end up a 16 megabits per meter.
So that was a big question why this thing is happening. Uh, and then we did some simulations to understand the effect.
One thing that we noticed is sometimes because of impurities on the cavity surface, uh,
there is a field enhancement in some areas, and the field enhancement occurs near the iris of a cavity.
You can have field emission. And when the field is zero, the magnetic field is zero.
But it's not a big problem because, uh, the electrons can scatter along the cavity uniformly and do not create so much damage.
However, when you start to ramp up the field.
So if you go to 0.1 Tesla or even go to 0.5 Tesla, all the electrons emitted from one side, uh, go to the other side of a cavity, okay.
And that can be a problem because remember this happens every RF pulse.
So you basically have electrons coming in coming in coming in coming on.
So you hit the surface then cools down. You hit the surface, uh, comes down again and again and again.
So at some point our theory was that the surface cracks and basically because of this pulse heating,
it cracks and you have more electrons coming out and eventually the cavity, uh, collapses.
So that was the idea.
Uh, and in order to address this problem, we said, okay, maybe, uh, we can build a cavity that is made of two different materials.
So you use the copper material, which is by default. But I showed you earlier, but now use a more robust material.
Use also beryllium. Okay. Beryllium, uh, because of its properties, uh, when you have field emission,
the electrons, what hit the surface, they can go very deep inside the surface.
So before we don't create this pulsating effect. So therefore we thought, at least in theory, that beryllium will work in copper will not.
So we did an experiment to verify this. We built a cavity, uh, a modular cavity, uh, 8 or 5MHz in frequency.
And we could change those end plates.
And of course, when they had copper and raised the field from 0 to 3 Tesla, there was a gradient, uh, dropping the gradient.
Uh, however, when we use beryllium, uh, it worked very well.
I mean, you see, there was no breakdown. In fact, the gradient went up, uh, by a little bit when we use a free Tesla field.
So that gave, uh, a hint. But, uh, but maybe if you change.
Material. Uh, this thing will work, of course.
Uh, but it wasn't parallel. But it was another great effort when it was very idea of using gas.
Okay, so basically, by putting gas inside the cavity, uh, again, you block this field emission effect by the gas is doing that for you.
So again, when you raise a field, you basically don't, uh, you don't see this.
Drop it. Uh, dropping gradient again. This was again, uh, very nicely benchmarked.
So we think about to have a solution. Uh, however, remember that all these tests were done with fields up to free Tesla.
Okay. So this brings up the motivation, uh, to go to higher fields.
And I think this could be very nicely discussed by Emma in the next talk.
Uh, where? Because we never have done this thing before.
Uh, now there is an effort at slack to increase, uh, the field and, uh,
repeat the experiment and make sure that we can, uh, we can, uh, we have a good design for the cavities.
So, uh, regarding the cooling demonstrator, uh, I showed you slide also in my previous talk on Wednesday,
uh, we we have done several we have done two main efforts to, uh, demonstrate ionization cooling.
Uh, so we believe that, uh, we, we have seen that we have proven.
But, uh, so in terms of, uh, physics, uh, we think about we we have done our duty.
So, uh, but of course, the next step that we need to do is we need to test, uh, integration, uh, how to build, uh, on a cooling channel.
So this this brings up the motivation for the next step. So, uh, we need to build a lattice that looks as close as possible to the realistic one.
To the one. But we use, uh, what we will use for the muon collider.
This is the only way to get input, knowledge and experience, uh, on, on a real channel.
And this is actually also a good way to learn how to operate these, uh, cooling channels,
and also would be a good experience to test instrumentation, but we might need and make sure that the instrumentation is doing the thing.
Uh, but you what you, what you want to do. So it is very, very important to make a cooling channel about this very, very close to be realistic.
One, uh, mice has not done it when we did have a cooling experiment and still we haven't done it.
So this should be the next step. But also in parallel you will have some spinoffs as well.
So for example, by having a cooling demonstrator, you can, uh, also advance the magnetic technology, uh,
since we will design and prototype and test solenoids, but the similar to the ones that we use, uh, uh, for, for the immune collider.
And of course, we should also not forget that there are some synergies here as well with, for example, uh,
fusion reactors and also dark matter surfaces who are also interested in high aperture solenoids of the same field.
So therefore there is here a common, uh, very, uh, very win win here opportunity.
Also, we will advance our technology, uh, because we will design,
prototype and test normal conducting cavities, uh, similar to those for the muon collider.
So we follow this opportunity and we will develop classrooms.
Uh, that perhaps could be useful also for other, uh, facilities, uh, not only the immune collider,
uh, but also, uh, this will be a good opportunity to develop technologies to, uh,
develop normal conducting cavities that can have very high gradients, for example, by doing,
applying different tricks, uh, warm copper versus cold copper or using other materials.
Uh, but it's a possibility to, uh, increase RF gradient.
And this could be useful for other applications as well. So, uh, here you see, uh, how we envision, uh, the demonstrator staging.
So first you like to start with a plan to test RF cavities, uh, in magnetic fields.
And this would be addressed in the next talk.
Uh, then in the second step, once you define that technology, you like to build a prototype, 1 or 2 cells, uh, and start looking at integration.
And then in the last stage, uh, you like to do a full, uh, full test of a beam, uh, and this here you of course, you will have,
uh, many cells, uh, 5 or 10 or even 20, uh, and use your beam and see and see how you can operate a channel like that.
So this is the Free State's approach. And, of course, uh, you cannot do everything at the same time.
It has to be kind of sequential. Uh, an idea for a demonstrator has been already, uh, published and volumes.
He has done some great work on that. So it's basically a facility that you see, uh, right here.
Uh, so you start with a target, uh, and then you have a capture area,
and then you have a rack where you transport the beam towards the cooling channel.
Uh, right. Uh, as you see here. And then at the end, you have your cooling channel, and of course, you will have the necessary instrumentation.
So the current designs, uh, talk, uh, talk for a cooling performance, they offer further 50%.
Uh, and this is and of course, this numbers again, uh, might be adjusted, but this is, uh, this is what we have right now.
Um, so then the next question becomes where would like to test this facility?
Uh, already the IMC has done some great work at looking at possibilities.
Where to put it in. Uh, they have one already identified, one earlier.
Uh, CTF free. Uh, the good the nice thing that I would say the good thing of a lot of space.
So they have 100 meter plus, uh, tunnel where they can, uh, put easily the target, the cooling channel and all the elements we need.
And also very, uh, means what we can get is of a order of ten over six.
One disadvantage is that it Bishara is not connected, uh, to back to their PES,
and therefore we need some additional, uh, uh, resources to do something like that.
The other area that, uh, CERN is considering is, uh, the, the, the T7 area, which, uh, you see, uh, right.
Should be here, this one, this area here.
And this area is connected to the, uh, two PES, which perhaps might make things easier.
However, we expect the immune intensity to be lower under the CTF three, so that might be a disadvantage.
Uh, but we are still having come up with a number yet. But we are working on this at Fermilab.
We have also looked at different locations. We have several options.
Uh, we can look at locations, uh, but take the beam out of a typical linac, for example, directly.
Uh, you see right here. So we can do something with 800 MeV per seat of energy.
Another possibility is maybe to extend the linac, uh,
go from 800 to 1 jet and then have your demonstrator and which is a lot of room here to build your demonstrator.
Another possibility is to use H of protons, for example, to use already the infrastructure that was used for the G minus two experiment.
And then you do the experiment. And then of course another possibility is to look at 120 protons again.
Or we start up what you see with free or possible Rs what you can use 120.
So there are different options.
Uh, the next step, of course, is now to take each of this option and see, uh, how this thing will work, uh, in, in terms of performance.
But also you have to take into account the cost also because ideally you'd like to be in an area where there is already some infrastructure,
a starting point to do this. So again, for the cooling cell itself, the IMC has done already some great progress.
So this is the picture I showed earlier in my talk. So the decision from the IMC right now is to, uh, focus in this area here.
So take B cell B5, which of course as you know this is already far away.
So it's in the, in the I would call it uh, the dangerous regime.
Okay. So it's a very nice area to, uh, to do your, uh, test.
Uh, of course it's not completely at the end, but of course, uh, if you are complete at the end, uh, it becomes also very, very expensive.
So, uh, this is a good sweet spot. Uh, right now, uh, that is the field for B cell peaks at around seven Tesla right now.
Uh, and here you see, uh, one, uh, cell.
And the idea is to build, uh, many, many, uh, cells that look like that.
So is this is at this moment the starting point for from four volumes.
See, uh, still, of course, it remains a question if this is really what we like to do or we like to look on something,
but it's a little bit more challenging. But again, we have to take into account resources as well.
So that's something under study. The other thing is that when we talk about the demonstrator, it's not only the cooling channel.
So it has a lot of elements that have to be optimized and need to be optimized based on the available beam.
So if we like to build the demonstrator at Fermilab, we need to go again for a homework, first of all to design the appropriate target.
And then the question is what kind of technology we like to use. We like to use uh, solenoid or would you like to use a horn?
Then the other question is how you like to design your pion decay area.
That is also very important. And then also you need to develop a beam dump where you remove unwanted.
Particles. You need vent to have a chicane, and also you need to have a beam preparation area where you bring the beam into the cooling channel.
So all these things have to be optimized. So this is a we have a lot of homework to do here.
So we have another theory for looking at these possibilities at Fermilab.
So uh obviously Fermilab has a lot of history with high proton beams and building high power targets.
So it could be a perfect place. Uh, to think of a demonstrator and what we like to do, uh, from well,
there the perspective is to look at different sites within Fermilab for a demonstrator, then, uh,
carry on an initial design and also evaluate the performance, evaluate the risks, uh,
and come up with some preliminary engineering designs and then also, uh, perform a preliminary cost analysis and also a schedule.
How a timeline, how we would like to develop. So right now we haven't received the funding yet.
Uh, so we're hoping this will come soon and we can, uh, start this effort and hopefully in the next, uh, annual meeting.
We'll have more to report on this. And I think this is my last slide.
Thank you. We do have some of the discussion session, but any questions on this topic in particular?
This will work. I'll get it done now. Uh, couple of comments.
Take this. You mentioned close drugs, but really, what we need is a, uh, a high power RF source.
And there are others on the market that are more cost effective and more, uh, power, less power hungry, right?
Um, the, uh, my other general comment, based on experience from my sons.
Be careful what you wish for. If you make this too ambitious, it will be a way of delaying the muon collider rather than advancing it through.
Um. I'm not. I don't understand the motivation for doing, uh, a muon beam experiment as opposed to a single particle experiment,
and that's worth discussing, and we can discuss it further in the, uh, discussion session.
Okay. Yeah, that's a good point of discussion, actually.
I had a question regarding the admittance when it comes out of the cooler.
I see that the transverse admittance is I've been using roughly 300, uh, mil 300 micro radians.
Is that one sigma or is that the entire, um, beam?
And the second follow up would be. I've been concerned. I've been looking into electron cooling.
It's highly dependent on the admittance. And the the tails of the distribution are hard to, uh, handle with electron cooling.
And I would almost think the same thing would be true in the ionization cooling.
So can you comment on both what the admittance is at the end and how many standard deviations?
And are the tails, uh, lost as you go through the cooler?
So so I think it's not a sigma. I think it's, uh, it's I have to check.
I have to be honest with you. I have to go back and look at this, because that plot.
I haven't done this calculation by myself. So it's better that I don't give you an answer right now about this.
Uh, so the second part of a question, uh, are you worried about the meters too large for the accelerator later on?
And what was the second part knowing in electron cooling, the, uh, cooling force is highly dependent on the velocity as observed in the moving frame.
Right. And so it goes as v cubed. Okay.
And so if you've got a two sigma muon you're going to lose a factor of eight okay.
And so you won't you won't captured in a short enough distance. So that's the game you have to play.
And I would think ionization cooling also works through the head.
So although I'm not certain uh and I would think that would have a similar issue so that you would be losing the tails as you go through.
Okay. So is that true? What about transmission right now?
Uh, you mean a longer whole cooling channel, right? Yeah.
So, um, I mean, I don't know what I don't remember right now the numbers, but the transmissions are not.
Some are reasonable, but once what you expect to have basically within the desired basically, uh, specs.
Okay. Yeah. Maybe. Maybe actually, Dave, Dave has maybe an answer, a better answer to this, but answer to that in that,
uh, in, uh, electron cooling, you're matching your beam to the electron beam.
And so any part of your beam that isn't inside the electron beam doesn't get cooling,
nor in our case, we're going to through an absorber which is larger than the incoming being.
So all the beam sees it. Okay. Thank you.
Okay. Anything else? Fantastic.
If not, we can move over to our next speaker. Thank Victor's again. Hello?
Can you hear me? Yeah. Okay. Okay.
Uh, so thank you all for coming. My name is Emma Snively.
I'm from slack National accelerator accelerator laboratory.
Uh, and, wow, that went way far ahead.
I got to talk about getting playgrounds. Right. Oh, boy. Come to this.
To the mouse. Yeah.
Stop. So at the bottom. Towards the bottom.
Towards the bottom. There's a closet. Yeah. Okay. That's the mouse's.
Okay. Running away. Well, you've seen the whole talk now.
Uh, well, this is why I don't know why the mouse keeps running away.
Uh, well, that's, like a lot of time, right? Okay, unplug the mouse and plug it back in, and now it won't run away.
Perfect. Okay, well, if you don't mind, maybe I will talk while you're, uh, working and started doing annotations in zoom.
Oh, wow. Okay, so, uh, that was exciting.
Okay. Um, so I want to talk to you today about a new test area that we are installing at slack.
Um, and so part of why I want to talk to you is because I want to share the research directions that we are interested in pursuing.
Um, and then I also want to make you aware of the facility capabilities and that it is available for the broader community to use as well.
Um, so, uh, let's try try again.
Okay. Okay. Uh, so why do we want to, uh, stand up this new test area right now?
Um, well, uh, efficient cooling, uh, is still one of the biggest technical hurdles, uh, for muon colliders.
So we heard about this from DEQ this just now. Um,
and what we really need is an enabling technology that can get us from what is currently
kind of the edge of reasonable physical assumptions to something that's actually,
uh, a practical, viable path for ionization cooling. Uh, and the accelerator community needs a place to validate these designs.
Um, at slack, uh, our general accelerator R&D program has made a lot of progress in the last decade or so.
Uh, using techniques that let us, uh, take normal conducting exciter designs, uh, to,
to new thresholds in terms of, uh, gradient power efficiency and then reducing the breakdown rates.
Um, so at slack, we're interested in applying these techniques, uh, to this, uh, regime of operation and high external magnetic fields.
Um, and then we're also deliberately, uh, standing up this, this new area in the nal CTA test facility,
uh, which is a facility that is accessible to the broader community.
Um, because we are interested in, uh, not only collaborations, but also being able to, to host experiments.
If you have research you're interested in doing. Uh, we want you to be able to come do it at slack.
Um, and so, uh, one of the things that I will cover in this talk are some of the kind of concrete ways that you can get involved,
uh, or do research, uh, taking advantage of this equipment.
Okay. Um, so, uh, this, uh, kind of research is taking place, um, uh, with a very extensive, like, humbling foundation of, uh,
of work that has already gone into, uh, addressing the challenges of operating out of cavities in high external magnetic fields.
Um, and, uh, as we've seen, uh, already today, uh, the maximum, uh, uh, reported result, uh, in an 805MHz cavity got up to 50 mega volts per meter.
Um, but there are a lot of, uh, uh, challenge and challenges in terms of how we would implement,
uh, a cavity like this in practice and scaled up to, uh, full ionization cooling design.
Uh, and so that's where, uh, we are interested in, in pursuing, um, design strategies that are compatible with some of the things that,
uh, Dick was mentioning just now, uh, including, uh, gas filled cavities using materials like beryllium in the window.
Um, we're interested to see if there are things we can do, uh, that are synergistic to that, um,
so that we can continue to advance kind of what we can achieve in terms of gradient,
uh, and make these designs even more robust, uh, in this operating regime.
Uh, so, uh, we heard from Sandhya earlier today, uh, slack has already been very involved in the modeling and design of these cavities.
Um, and so I would point you to his talk to get into some of the details of the modeling that's been done in ACP and the capabilities there.
Um, but I just want to highlight that, uh, with this new capability at slack to do this high power testing,
I will have this very nice kind of quick turnaround time between our ability to
model these cavities and then test them and benchmark our results in the lab.
Um, okay. Uh, so you've heard about the simulation capabilities from Sanchi, uh, at slack.
Uh, our RF accelerator research, uh, division covers, uh, the full spectrum of accelerator design from the initial conception,
uh, modeling those cavities, fabricating them, and testing them.
Um, and, uh, so we really want to bring the that expertise to bear on this problem.
Uh, so one of the advances that we've been kind of pursuing within this kind of last decade or so time frame,
uh, is taking advantage of high power computing capabilities to really optimize the individual cavity geometry.
Um, and then that goes hand in hand with the development. Of this distributed coupling architecture that lets us, uh,
power each individual cavity so we can take advantage of that flexibility in the cavity design on the individual level.
Um, and so taking this approach, uh, in many of the applications that we've used it for, uh,
where we've been designing accelerators, where we were trying to make a very compact structure.
Um, and uh, we use strategies like, uh, reentrant nose cones, uh, that let us get this higher shunt impedance.
So better power efficiency in our cavity. Um, that's why we end up needing something like this side coupling scheme.
Uh, because we can no longer couple power on access, but on access between cavities.
Um, so now, uh, this is not the, uh, operating regime that we would want for a muon collider, but instead, um, we could now consider, uh,
having windows between the cavities in which we would still want to take advantage of something like this side coupling scheme,
which we have lots of experience in, uh, but now we have new optimization constraints to consider.
Um, so this is be a new area for us to apply some of these strategies that we have developed in the design of these cavities.
Um, another area that we have made great strides in is cold copper.
RF um, so you heard from Dylan earlier today about some of the kind of analytical calculations backing up,
uh, why we're seeing this effect with cold copper.
Um, what we've found with actual tests, including a tested and octa, uh, is that we see a significant reduction in the break down rate.
Um, and, uh, so we're able to make these cavities, uh, have the higher, uh, shunt impedance.
Um, so we reduce the surface resistance. When we go to these colder temperatures, we get a higher quality factor.
Uh, so we have better power efficiency, and we're able to sustain higher gradients.
We want to apply this technology now, uh, to the the regime of operation in high external magnetic fields.
Uh, another area that I want to just highlight here,
there there are many different research activities going on in the CTA, but this one seems particularly relevant.
Um, is an effort to develop, uh, high temperature superconducting coatings, uh, for RF cavities.
Uh, so you see the structure on the left here? Um, this cavity was designed, uh, it's an RF pulse compressor.
Um, and, uh, the it's composed of multiple different copper sections.
Uh, and then there's a red tape coating on the inside of these cavities.
Um, so we've already done, uh, low power testing of this cavity at Nikita.
Uh, and we have plans to test this, uh, with high power RF at X-band at octa this fall.
Um, so this is another area where we're exploring, uh, RF materials studies, uh,
to advance, uh, what gradients and efficiency we can get out of these RF structures.
Okay. Uh, so the test story itself. Um, so we're planning a guard research program with this new test area.
Uh, we want to, uh, characterize the, uh, gradient dependance on, uh,
parameters like the cavity geometry, uh, material, uh, RF pulse length, um, the operating temperature.
Uh, and, uh, do all of this, uh, in this high external magnetic field.
Um, so we will, will test different cavity geometries and materials.
Um, through this program, we'll be looking at structures that are relevant to this muon cooling application.
Uh, and then our, our intent is to benchmark, uh, our high gradient results, uh, at multiple frequencies.
So we're going to start at S-band, um, and then within, within a few years we plan to move to album testing within the same solenoid.
Um, and then we'll also be benchmarking our measurements against, uh, simulations done with Ace three PE.
Um, so that's all within the scope of the research program that we are already starting to pursue.
Um, and then we've also, uh, submitted an LDA that's specifically focused on designing a cavity for ionization cooling.
Um, so this is a more, uh, kind of targeted project, uh, in which we would design a cavity scale to S-band,
um, and then tested, uh, at high power RF in the solenoid.
Uh, so the solenoid itself, uh, is a five Tesla magnet from Cryo Magnetics.
Uh, we're expecting it to arrive, uh, by January of 2026.
Um, and what you see on the right here is, uh, uh, schematic where we've put, uh, four cell band cavity, uh, into this, uh, solenoid.
It has a 9.5in diameter border. Um, this structure is, is, uh, not one that we have been designing for the specific application.
It's actually one that we pulled from our kind of arsenal of many structures that slack has designed, uh, over the years.
And so we have a great foundation, uh, to launch from, with the design of new structures, uh,
because we have lots of experience in, uh, prototyping cavities both at S-band and L bend.
And with this test area, we're starting at S-band, uh, in part because we already have high power RF at S-band.
And that means we can hit the ground running with this, uh, research and really start cranking out results immediately.
It also makes it much easier and cost effective, uh, to prototype these cavities and for doing an S-band instead of, uh, lower frequencies.
Um, and CTA already has, uh, the infrastructure.
So we have close runs at El band, and the bunker is already plumbed for the waveguide to route L band, uh, to this area.
Um, but those close runs have not been in service for a number of years now.
So we do expect that it'll take some time to bring them back.
Back online. Um, and in the meantime, we want to already be, uh, producing, uh, um, actionable results at S-band, uh, from this program.
Uh, okay. So I wanted to do a brief, uh, overview of, uh, and I'll CTA.
Um, so here in this photo of, uh, the slack campus, I've highlighted the building, uh, where CTA is located.
Uh, that's in the old and station B, um, now CTA is participating in a network of test facilities called beam at us.
Um, up in the map there, you can see, uh, the various locations across the country that are participating in this test facilities network.
Um, the goal of this network is to advance accelerator research and technology, um,
provide access to these accelerator facilities and the specialized equipment there.
Um, and also to help foster collaboration, exchange ideas, skills and resources.
Um, it's also intended as a way to, um, bring more kind of new user communities, uh,
to these facilities that might not be aware, uh, that these capabilities are available for use.
Um, beam net uh, has a, uh, proposal process, um, that awards beam time, uh, and supports, uh, the, uh, funding for travel.
Um, and then the beam net program also provides funding to the facilities.
Um, so for users that get beam time through this program, uh, we are really able to,
to treat it as a kind of all hands on deck moment where our staff can help you,
uh, with your experiments and collaborate kind of in more depth than might otherwise be true.
Uh, at a larger user facility. Um, so, uh, for example, um, we had our first users at CTA this year.
They were actually the very first users of the beam net program, uh, as a whole.
Um, and it was a team of undergraduate students from Harvey Mudd College.
Um, so they were doing, uh, senior thesis project, and they reached out to us about doing.
The experiment. Um, and uh, staff worked with them throughout the entire process.
So with beam net, you're actually the idea is to to reach out to the facility first, um, and talk about, uh, how the facility, whether it can,
can kind of meet the needs of your experiment and then work together on the proposal so that it is,
uh, really geared towards, uh, success and, um, work with the facility throughout the entire process.
Um, so we're now still working with that team of students, uh, and, and they have, uh,
submitted a contribution to the North American particle accelerator conference, uh, next week.
And they're going to be going to present on this research.
Um, so it's a great way to get kind of new users and new people involved and test facilities.
Um, and doing, uh, research, taking advantage of equipment that you might not otherwise have access to.
Um, yeah.
Uh, and also in general is a great environment for early career scientists and engineers to really have hands on experience in an accelerator,
uh, research environment. Um.
Okay. So, uh, I don't think I'm going to go into too much depth here.
This is just kind of an overview of, uh, facilities at CTA.
But if you are curious, I mean,
these slides are posted and there's a link to a virtual tour where you can walk around the building and inside of the bunker.
Um, we're set up with, uh, comparatively, uh, like very easy access to the outer housing and there's no cooldown period to wait for entry.
That makes it kind of more accessible for new groups that might have more troubleshooting to do.
Uh, less experience with an intensive user experiment. Um, okay.
Uh, test facility capabilities. Um, so here I just wanted to, uh, highlight that we are very open to opportunities for collaboration.
Um, and new proposals. Uh, so, like, we're interested kind of, uh, at all levels.
Maybe you have your own idea. You don't need our help at all. That's totally fine.
Apply for some time. We'll help, like, make it available to you.
Um, and that's fantastic. Uh, maybe you are interested in getting involved in the work, but you don't know what?
You, uh, don't have an idea that you want to pursue yourself quite yet.
Um, you can come get involved with what we're doing.
And here I also want to highlight, uh, the Dewey's science undergraduate laboratory internship program.
Um, so this is a great way for students to come get involved.
Uh, there's a ten week internship over the summer, and you can also come for 16 weeks, uh, during the fall or spring semester.
I know you're on the quarter system, so, uh, maybe it doesn't work out quite as well.
Um, but usually the start and end dates can be flexible. Um, so this is a paid internship.
Uh, and it would give you a way to get involved in projects happening here.
Okay. Um, so if you're interested about, uh, doing research or dental CTA, uh, get in touch with me.
I'm the point of contact.
Um, and let's see, I want to, uh, end with this slide just giving an overview of the research that we are looking to do in the near term at CTA.
Uh, at this test area, we're going to be starting with, uh, high power RF at S-band, looking at cavities at room temperature.
Um, then we're going to look at cryogenic testing. Uh, and then we're going to move to uh, el band.
Uh, and then do el band. Uh, cryogenic temperatures.
So that's kind of within the span of the next 1 to 5 years. Um, in terms of material studies, uh, we're looking at normal conducting cavities.
Uh, we're going to be doing cold copper, different materials and geometries.
Um, and then we're also looking at developing high temperature superconductors.
Uh, for RF cavity, uh designs. With design studies we've got, uh, multi physics analysis.
So, um, I want to point again to the great talk that Sang-hyun gave earlier.
Uh, we're looking to be able to quickly benchmark, uh, results that we get from our modeling against, uh, measurements in the lab.
We want to, uh, have results on frequency scaling, and this can inform choices when we do need to go to lower frequencies.
Uh, we want to follow up on, on optimizing, uh, cavity designs for the cooling application.
Um, and then eventually start looking at multi cell cavities. Um, and yeah, so there's opportunity to collaborate, uh, across all of this.
Um, and then I also want to acknowledge, uh, the great team of people at slack that have contributed to this,
um, and collaborators, uh, around the world.
Um, and, uh, yeah. So a lot of people have been doing a lot of great work for this.
I have been all of the cold copper research, uh, the research on the high temperature superconductors, it's it's a lot of people involved in this, so.
Yeah, that's a. Thank you for this fantastic view.
We have straight into a question. Uh, very nice talk.
Good work. I think this is cool. Uh, one question I have regarding the application of the test stand for the Muon Collider is can
you comment on how the frequency scaling studies would work for the break down test in?
Because. Do we actually know how break down scales with frequency or.
Um, yes. So we have uh, uh, kind of a rudimentary understanding from like an analytical estimate, but we really need empirical measurements to know.
Um, and, uh, so, uh, yeah, I think one of the biggest kind of challenges to this approach is as a comment of like, why are you doing this at S-band?
That's very far from the frequencies that we actually would want to use for ionization cooling.
Um, and I guess one comment I want to make is kind of in response to some of the questions before about like,
oh, if you're too ambitious, you might actually delay, uh, the, uh, kind of muon collider effort.
Uh, I think this, uh, kind of accelerator R&D program does a good job of striking a balance between kind of the fundamental physics of addressing,
like breakdown studies, um, and scaling, like with frequency, uh, without making,
uh, like, uh, necessarily it will inform the designs for a muon collider.
It does not make a definitive claim of this is the way it must be done.
Um, so we can start, like,
making actionable kind of research results immediately without kind of undercutting any of the effort for a full scale design.
Yeah, I think that since you will do two frequencies, right, you do S-band and then you go l band.
So maybe from, from this study you can already get an understanding, you know, how things scale.
And maybe we can extrapolate later to very lower frequency.
And so I also I do know kind of there's like well uh the, the, the magnet that we've got is only up to five Tesla.
Uh, I'm sure there's kind of, uh, well, why why don't you get one with a larger bore going to a higher field?
Um, I think that once again comes around to kind of.
This is what we have, uh, at hand, like, readily usable right now with S-band going to el band.
Um, and if we kind of I think this this gives us a path to, to to make results quickly that can inform results without getting hung up on.
Oh, the magnets going to be too expensive if we get one that's a big enough bore to go to even lower frequencies,
or it's not going to reach the field that you would need for the actual demonstrator.
Like we're we're not trying to to claim to be the way that it will be the actual demonstrator.
We just want to inform kind of the underlying physics choices. Great.
Anything else? You, uh.
I didn't understand this from the presentation. I worked with this stuff with the people.
This is just, uh. Uh, no beam. This is only high power RF.
No beam. Yeah, yeah. So at NLC to we do have an electron accelerator.
Uh, but we're this is a different area within the bunker, so no beam.
Yeah. Uh, I heard of cold copper earlier. Is there any plan to maybe put a cryostat in it at any point?
Uh, yes. So we have not yet looked at whether we would attempt to immerse the structure in liquid nitrogen or use, like, a cold head.
Um, so we do have both options available to us. Um, a lot of the work that's been done in the division for Cold Copper has been looking at immersing,
uh, structures in, uh, large doors of liquid nitrogen.
So notably the C cubed project. Um, that's a very kind of cost effective way to handle this, but it comes with other challenges.
Uh, and yeah, so we're looking at both options.
We haven't committed either way. Cool. Thank you. If nothing else, let's thank MRA again.
And now we have 45 minutes to discuss. So I'll invite, uh, dict us to introduce that, uh.
No, you don't want to facilitate. Uh, what are some topics you'd like us to talk about when I think about the topic, right?
I think Dan already opened the one topic already, so maybe we can start from there.
Okay, we can escape the slides. We have four microphones.
Uh, okay. We're going to start with Mel up here, and I'll give you this and I'll run down.
I'll get another microphone. Thank you.
Uh uh uh, I want to ask a general question, and, uh, it's actually one that I asked last year as well as I understand,
as I understand the schedules was presented yesterday, the idea is to carry out the cooling test and assuming success,
then go for full approval of the project of the $15 billion project and start construction.
And what concerns me is that the cooling test will do a great job showing that you can cool by a factor of two.
Then in order for the muon collider to work.
You have to cool. Go down another factor of 40,000.
And will you be able to convince all of us and the reviewers and the funders that there are no subtle problems that will cause heating?
Uh, at a low level, something you wouldn't see when you when you successfully cooled by a factor of two.
You know, I don't know, uh, collective effects between the, uh, the muons and the channel between the muons and material in the channel,
but things that that would cause you not to be able to get the factor of ten to the to five,
maybe not even close, but would not be perceptible when you're cooling a factor of two.
How do you how do you make the jump from cooling factor of two to approving the entire project?
Uh, Mel, that's a great question. I would suggest that by choosing, uh,
a piece of the cooling channel near the end where you have a low emission stream coming in and even lower emissions beam coming out,
you're testing one of the harder parts of the channel. Um, and if there are subtle effects, they could well show up.
Doing an easier test could also make sense.
But I don't understand why something would show up in a test with a larger admittance than a lower cooling factor that wouldn't show up here.
So in this test. In this test, the incoming beam into the channel would already have the very low admittance that you would have in the full.
Uh, yes. Cooler. Okay. That helps.
Of course, we should also not exclude the possibility, but maybe we can derive some scaling laws with protons as well.
I mean, protons could be intense and maybe some intense.
The effects of intense protons could be similar to me.
And so therefore we can perhaps derive some scaling. So that's another route.
But we can answer some other questions. If I can come back to the point I raised after this is talk, you really want to define something.
That's the minimal necessary thing to demonstrate and eliminate as many extraneous factors as you can.
Uh, we have no reason, based on simulations, to expect any collective effects of any kind at the admittance that we're talking about here.
Uh. Are you. Are the simulations good enough?
Or do you know that all of the relevant interactions are there?
That. Well, we certainly have time to refine the simulations.
Not, uh. But but the, uh, the other comment in that context is if there are no if there are no, uh,
collective effects at a million muons per bunch, then what are you learning by doing a million muons instead of one muon at a time?
Uh, you're investing a lot of money and effort in preparing the million muon bunch that if you if you were happy with one muon at a time,
you wouldn't need to invest. And there are all kinds of problems you wouldn't need to solve.
Uh, figuring out how to make a million muon bunch doesn't teach you much, because it's not the thing you have to solve to make a muon collider.
Another thing I'd like to add. So not on Plex effects, but for the heating effects.
I'm a little concerned about B sub tank.
Uh, I don't want to speak for the most people in the room, but that was the thing that happened when the downstream solenoid broke.
And and so then the beta beating heating effect outweighed the cooling effect.
And and this is something we also have to be very sensitive to in simulations is having these matching areas to minimize a beating.
And so this is part of the reason why these tolerance studies are so important.
Because the engineering effects can result in heating.
And I think that that's another reason why it's important to do the engineering design, because it tells us about any solenoid field misalignments.
And so I think even a million particles could pick up on a beta beating.
Uh, and probably single particle as well.
Single if you do single particles, as we know from mice, you know everything there is to know about the bunch.
Uh, it's a million muons. You just took it over a period of a day or whatever instead of all at once.
Yes, but as a kilometer long cooling system in the real collider, I would be concerned that somewhere in that system,
you have a small effect which dominates any heating benefit you might get.
The other thing that we have to consider is what kinds of effects did people
encounter when they built previous accelerators that they then learned how to solve?
There will certainly be problems of that kind that you can't anticipate and that you can't seek to test in advance.
But you have to be you have to have confidence in the tremendous ingenuity of accelerator builders.
Uh, every accelerator that I know of has exceeded its initial design specs, and we would hope that the muon collider eventually would do that as well.
B and SLC, I guess, are the counterexamples.
Has come up for you live. With another aspect, I think.
Initially I didn't appreciate it much, but now I realize it's very important is the instrumentation,
and we need to make sure that we have developed the required tools to measure the maintenance without, of course, interrupting the beam also.
Right? I mean, that's another, uh, critical item.
But we have to do and perhaps for what you need some muon intensity as well, because if you don't have any,
if you have, you know, ten over three muons, I doubt what we can use any will be very hard to to see the beam.
So I think the fact that we have ten over six means I think it's a. But why couldn't you develop that with proton?
Well, if you want to measure cooling. Right.
Uh, if you want to see the cooling effect, uh, versus position, um, but the instrumentation is not specific to cooling.
It's just a maintenance measurement. You can measure the admittance of a proton beam.
That can be done. Uh, at BSI, for example, BSI has a quite, uh I mean, it's low momentum, but they have an intense muon plus beam.
So they are studying actually, they are also wondering what you are saying.
They are, uh, going very high intensity and probably also g Baka don't know what they will have the same problem.
So, uh, they are studying new methods, uh, to measure the emissions because is not trivial at all.
And actually, you know, one problem in the Muon campus, for example, is yes, we can do a measurement,
but when we interfere with a beam and then we basically destroy the whole beam downstream and G minus two cannot collect any data.
Right. So you want to do it in a way that you don't, uh, create the opposite effect.
Yeah. Yeah. Right. I'm not going to repeat myself from yesterday, but I'm going to present in an alternative universe, you know, where,
uh, we actually run Muda e from the first run and we go on to mutiny to with the Pip, to Moodie with the pip two.
And, uh, people collectively decide. Yeah, maybe we go with a muon collider slash neutrino factory type front end,
because we have to tear apart so much of the experiment anyway, and because there's already been engineering done.
In fact, some of that engineering was used for those, uh, transport solenoids on the, uh,
on the helical cooling channel and the, uh, off axis, uh, high, uh, high field rings, Hopfield solenoids.
We build a section of helical cooling channel for collection and not for cooling.
Even though we do have we do have absorber in it. It's we tune it for, uh.
And I saw Cronus being so that the we think which you can do and I would say that if that went ahead,
you would have accomplished much of what you were going to do with the demonstration experiment,
because you would have you would have had a real running experiment, a real high intensity beam.
Uh, uh, you would have to be able to instrument this.
You would have to be able to determine how well it ran. And, you know, I think we're focusing too much on the cooling.
I think Dan made that point is that it's not, uh, measuring cooling.
It's measuring, uh, nonlinear beams.
I mean, it's it's how do you characterize a beam that you can't use the traditional twist parameters to characterize and that so, you know,
again, I'm just kind of thinking that if we go with what, how long a cooling channel do you want to build that thinks that answers your question?
I think we just need experience with, uh, non-conventional type, uh,
beam lines and unholy kind of collections of, of RF inside of magnetic fields filled with explosive gas.
Um, no, not really, not if you keep the oxygen out.
Um, but anyway, that's what I'm saying.
It's it's like I see another long term project, phase one of what you presented, this, uh, was like 20 years and, uh, 117 million or what?
I don't even know what the final cost was.
And I think that's probably impolite of me to ask, but, you know, what I'm saying is that it took a lot to get there.
We should be doing all kinds of things like this as we're doing, you know,
the as we're doing the current physics project, and it just needs somebody like, it's smarter than I am,
but somebody nimble that has kind of a vision of, you know,
the collective of all of our collective capacities and a whole range of things and particle physics to,
you know, just have faith that we can build it. We didn't do a Tevatron demonstrator, as I recall.
We, the Timothy Ron David story theater, was the Tevatron.
And we sort of maybe it was a leap of faith, which we're going to have to do if we're doing science that.
But, you know, not a big one. I mean, you know, it's not like there's new physics involved in any of this now.
But I think that, for example, in order to decide what kind of technology of RF you like to use for the for the immune collider,
right, you need first to do the study, for example. Well, you can do you know, I don't see why a lot of that stuff can't be done in parallel.
If it can, yes. I don't you know, it doesn't lock you into a particular.
But this is part of a demonstrator as well, part of a demonstrator program basically.
So you have basically you have to define with technology what you will use for your RF.
You have to define the technology, what you and the experience will be, margins that you have to use and how to build them.
Because the unique aspect of a cooling channel, if we go for a convenience, for example, is that we have all this, it's not so much.
Building the magnet is more about putting the magnets together and how to basically hold this thing.
Yeah, right. Do you understand?
I mean, we have a program basically we had an SBIR that dealt with just that issue like over 12 years ago and successfully, I might add, in a month.
And actually, I have to go, I my apologies. Uh, not surprisingly, we had the same discussion 25 years ago.
Uh, and Alvin actually raised the question, is a muon cooling experiment going to be an unwise use of our limited resources?
Uh. Uh, so Mike encountered it with an interesting question.
He said, I've invented this thing. I call it a car.
It's based on Maxwell's laws and Newton's laws, and certainly it will work.
Right? We understand all that physics. Would you like to test it?
And naturally, you would ask. Well, have you tested it?
Has it been tested?
You know, I'm not going to get into something that's supposed to go at 60 miles an hour if it hasn't been carefully tested by competent engineers.
And that was his argument why we had to do a muon cooling demonstration.
Yeah, I would say his counterargument, though, was because the whole spectrum of thing we didn't test because we were locked
into what was quickly kind of an arcane sort of vision of a cooling channel,
plus a whole bunch of other things that happened. And it was political.
But, you know, um, you know, I'm not I'm not saying that there wasn't a boatload of R&D to do,
but I'm just saying even our, you know, our framing of this whole thing,
we have to, like, build a significant piece of this, you know, with one design and that will like, you know, and how much, how long will that take?
You know, when we should just be building the design we already have.
We're already building the source. Right? You know, we've got a multi megawatt beam source at Fermilab.
So that's step 1AA key a key question here is who's the audience.
Who is it who has to be convinced. Is it the entire field of particle physics in the world.
Is it accelerator physics physicists of the world?
Is it administrators of funding agencies?
We never really articulated that in a clear way, but, uh,
it does seem to be the case that if you convince the community that something is feasible and worth doing, that they'll get behind it.
Uh, and to convince them that it's feasible. This is a difficult engineering problem.
You should at least build a difficult cell and show that you can solve the engineering problem.
If you've done that, the question of whether you put muons through it or not maybe is less important.
So I think to follow up on your question of who is this four year college?
And here you guys. Okay.
Uh, is that better? Yes. Um, I think the question of who we're doing this for, uh, who are we convincing is all of the above.
Right. I'm not convinced that we can build a view on clutter today.
Um. I think we need to convince other people in physics and different areas.
I think we need to convince people in other areas of science because it is such a big price side project.
I think we need to convince funding agencies, and I think we need to convince the public.
Um. That being said, I think we have a reasonably good understanding of the things that we want
to the questions we want to answer before we start building a muon collider.
Um, I have a very naive question, and I have to confess,
I have not read the full 400 page Espoo report yet, so I'm sorry if it's in there, but is there,
um, you know, I'm thinking of kind of a table or list where you have the question that you want to ask and mapping this on to a specific test.
Um, and that test could be things that you have today.
I really like the idea of what do we have in hand today and what what questions can we start answering today.
And then, you know, something on the intermediate term in something longer term.
Because for me, you know. Building a demonstrator where we're testing a late stage of cooling, it doesn't need to.
I could be convinced with a lower emissions proton beam, you know, high intensity going through,
um, that beam, if it's a lower intensity muon beam going through,
then I would want to test collective effects or, um, intensity effects on the absorber or things like that in a different place.
And I feel like just making that list and then making sure that we have a plan for
doing all of those tests is the first way to define what we need to be doing.
So we do have a list, and I'll try and get up if someone knows how to open the internet on that.
Um, like, uh, the list is not from that kind of holistic perspective of why.
And then answer the list is here are all the magnets we want to try.
Here's all the RF we want to try of the cooling demonstrator.
We want to try one cell, then a five cell cryo module, and then a five cell cryo module and a beam,
and then six sets of five cell cryo modules to test cooling principles.
And so that's the the list. But then that isn't going to consider collective effects,
because I think it's been said before that when you're testing collect effects of a me on Clyde Beam, then it's a muon collider.
Uh, and I also think that you need to quantify the collective effects and simulations first before we worry about a collective effects demonstrator.
Um, uh, I'm we're just starting the point where we have a solid enough lattice that we can start to test the,
um, loading Wakefield's impedance, uh, plasma absorber and Wakefield's as an absorber.
Um, and then has it also been connected from the list of things that you,
the list of tests that you want to do to resources in existing expertise in the world, and where one could do that, has that already been done?
It's been connected to funding and PhDs for the R&D plan but not for global.
Got it. Sightings okay. It's mostly making things rather than looking for beams.
Um, and I can I just also echo what Carrie is saying and especially that the the mapping
is actually I think what we found also about by how was talk a DPF was received.
Um, it's kind of well, it's kind of profound for the community to be able to see this mapping, like put this in terms that they understand because,
um, yeah, it just the, the clarity of the talk at DPF has really made a dent in terms of convincing people that the R&D is worth it.
Could you say that I got to.
Uh, so we've already heard feedback from Maria Blue, uh, this week that the clarity with which Tovah gave the talk a DPF putting in.
I mean, uh, with easy diagrams and, um, understandable terms made a profound effect on skeptics in the community to say,
okay, these are the things that we need to do. This is how things work. Um,
and so I think what Kerry is saying about having specific questions that we want to
answer and how we're going to answer those questions will make an impact in terms of,
uh, convincing the community that this is worthwhile.
And okay, since since I'm going on more, I'll say that I've talked to somebody who is high up at FCC e and they've said,
you know, if we can prove to people that we can build a muon collider, there's no reason to build it.
So I think there's there's actually a lot of, um, opportunity to make inroads with the rest of the community.
Okay. Do you want to cover some of this, or should I go ahead?
Can read it. And if, uh, it's it's something related to what Mel was Mel was asking earlier.
So we can either do this first or however you want to do it.
Uh. Thanks, Taylor. Um, so I wanted to, for a second to go back to what Mel was saying.
I think it it's a fair question to ask, right?
If you're going from 20 cooling cells, what are you reducing emissions by a factor of 2 to 850 cells or something like this,
where you're reducing the 60 emissions by five orders of six orders of magnitude?
Are you absolutely sure that you're not, um, not taking something into account that may impact your performance?
Um, I think some answers were given, but I would also say that the cost of a collider, um, is not dominated by the cooling channel.
Right? A lot of the cost of a collider lies in what's downstream of the cooling.
So a lot of it in the cooling, the the the three TV through 410 TV, a lot of it in the arcs is in the final Collider ring.
Um, and also, if I recall correctly, for the Neutrino Factory, for example,
the requirements on the cooling were much more relaxed compared to the specs of the muon collider itself.
So you can imagine that you build a cooling channel, and if it's not even performing according to your specs and you need,
um, some time to understand it, you can still attach some physics to it and extract interesting physics.
Uh, of course, the question is then the delays, the timescales, which are already long, and I certainly appreciate that argument that's there.
But what I'm trying to say is that there could still be a lot of use case for that, um,
cooled muon beam, which maybe is not quite yet to cooled to the specs of a muon collider.
Um, and then the other thing, uh, in relation still in the relation to what that was saying,
uh, well, I wanted to say is I think even in Ecmc discussions and some of the US discussion.
So it's pretty clear that the within the accelerator community, which, uh, I don't come from the accelerator community,
but to me was obvious there are sort of two camps of how people see what needs to be demonstrated.
Right? There's a part of a community that's firm believer that it's an engineering problem.
Whether you can manufacture a cell, put multiple cells together with coils of high magnetic field,
opposite polarities next to each other, absorber RF all together integrated.
If you build that to first order, the you don't need to put the beam you you kind of you convince yourself you can do it.
And then there's the other camp that says building it alone is not sufficient.
You need to put build through it. You need to demonstrate that you can operate that beam.
You can measure the parameters of a beam, because in the final collider you would need to do it,
tuned things as you go and you need to demonstrate your ability to do that.
So it's great that these things are brought up.
Uh, what I'm saying is, I don't think there is a clear consensus on on what is the main thing.
And I think the MK plan attempts to address both issues and to a good conclusion for the three days of the demonstrator workshop last year.
I as you say. So we're trying to cover everything. I don't even know if we have a design which needs to meet a specific cooling percentage.
Uh, I don't know. Yeah. I mean, number factor of two was taken out of a hat to to some extent it could be, uh, factor of five.
It could be factor of ten. I don't think there's a magic number.
Uh, and also we have another demonstrates a meeting, uh, 3rd to the 5th of November.
And I'm gonna send Milano, uh, just to comment that you can attend.
Sorry if we have funding and go can go to Milano.
I doubt that we will.
Uh, just saying that it exists and and we can have these discussions because it was nice to have it in Fermilab last year, though.
Yes. I was just going to add, I, I really like, uh, this is really useful, uh, conversation.
I really like what Carrie said about sort of from a,
like going in the reverse direction because we've done a lot of bottom up, kind of like we need to build this.
So what are we going to show with it? What can we whatever. But the point is for convincing other people who are not into in this community,
I think the direction that Carrie suggested is really useful, and I think we should try and do that.
Um, I hear some people sounding maybe antagonistic to the concept of a demonstrator, period, which to me is sort of like beyond the point.
Like no one's going to give us $18 billion right now, and we might be able to get a significant chunk of money for a demonstrator.
So I think we should really be thinking, how do we make this as useful as possible to us in advancing towards this muon collider?
Right. So not only, you know, I think this is this is our prototype for when we make a cooling cell from right.
We need to do that. So this is great. This is a way for us to get money now.
Um, so I think it's really like we should see this opportunistically as what we can, what we really want to design now and get money for now.
In addition to thinking what's convincing, which is a more like wishy washy, I think concept.
That I don't know. A question similar to what you just mentioned in the.
So the as you mentioned, I'm CC decided we're going to choose the be five of the 60 cooling cell,
and I wonder if the U.S. demonstrator would want to take the same approach of taking from a 60 cooling cell,
or if there's another design philosophy that's worth doing that can explore synergistic or perpendicular types of R&D.
I think that he also has the microphone. If you want another highlight, I want to add a more, um, let's say, time,
timeline and political issue that we are discussing and preparing the next the European strategy that is ongoing.
And then in the past one, as it was for Snowmass, uh, uh,
showing that we are advancing even a small steps, uh, in a, in a clear direction is very important.
And everybody is waiting for us to, to get some something more on the demonstrator.
That is a crucial step and mandatory step.
So I think we should, uh, make this effort, uh, and work coherently on both side of the ocean to,
to show that we are working to get as much as possible on the bottom test, on real test, and on simulation to show that we are advancing.
Uh, I don't know. I might be sent home missing something very important.
But in my books, you know, Collider is really.
We know that I own it from physics works and stuff like this.
Uh, I believe the muon collider is more technological problem and engineering problem than physics.
And what really kind of also worries me is the cost not only of the component, but also operations of this type of machines.
And nobody is talking about how we can improve the cost of the magnets or the cost of dive systems.
And I mean, it's really great to say, well, we will use Clay, Sly Stone and we will.
Design efficient license. But somehow I want to remind.
Remind people. For last.
Almost 100 years. We are here in license and we never made it more than 50% efficiency from the classrooms.
On the other hand, we have migrant drones. Pitch around for the last 50 years and very easily making efficiency in the range of 80%.
Why we don't concentrate on technologies like this and try to see can we develop that which will be extremely important for the muon collider,
but at the same time extremely useful for existing machines.
So what I'm trying to say is the following. Uh, let's not worry about cooling and stuff like this.
Okay, fine. That is great. But let's worry more about technology and trying to Dell to develop new technology for these type of machines.
This much I want to say. For example, I really I'm kind of surprised for last two days nobody is saying anything about not if.
Uh, and once again, I'm selling you to fly students today.
Uh, efficient to 50%. I mean, probably somebody will make in the future a fish classroom, which can be efficient to 70%.
But keep in mind we have magnet drones, which are ordered efficiency 80%.
And which can be used. I mean, in accelerator it's not only muon colliders but any other.
So this is more common than anything else.
Whatsoever using it, calling a project a cooling demonstrator and, uh, you know,
sort of broadening the definition of what that is to include a whole host of things like,
for instance, phase and frequency locked magnetron in your cooling demonstration project.
That would be an awesome synergy. I mean, it's like but again, I would I think it just it takes a little bit of imagination and, you know,
just kind of being we're being aware of locking ourselves into a 10 to 20, even 30 year project, you know, which is going to be a sideline mean.
Um. How much were we going to ask for this, uh, muon cooling demonstrator, by the way?
Little R&D plan was 300 million, but the cooling demonstrator was part of that.
Uh, and I don't think I have. Oh, yeah.
So this table, if you plot, it shows the time spreads over the ten years.
Were I to X is the time from being greenlit?
Uh, and so then you could assume that a lot of the Zero Sun and technology material would go towards the demonstrator.
Uh, that would also include RF magnets.
Has it separate category? RF will be an accelerated design and technologies along with the absorbers along with targets.
To accelerate the design and technologies of the first row.
Yeah. Which contain RF material.
So. Yes. So the list of RF.
Uh, the list of the RF that we would want to test within the, the, uh, R&D is is these four.
So yes, the, uh, RF muon cooling system prototype industry, 704MHz and then 352MHz.
Clay strong prototype. Well, put this together, please.
He or she went on to think twice to this great power source.
Relatively efficient, inefficient and expensive.
And I mean, the people are promising to have multi being price terms which will go up to 70%.
It's not you comparing to your go to market.
You mean comparing the discussion for so solid state and also microphones.
So you'd want to compare flies, drones with microphones? Yes.
At least you tried to use them. Yes.
With your right over the phone. You so much? Yeah.
Let me echo that. We certainly shouldn't lock ourselves into close drones at the beginning of a long development period.
Uh, coming back to the table, it seemed to me the cost of the demonstrator was grossly underestimated, but I didn't.
I didn't see what the units of FTE was. Was that person years or was that translated into money?
Yes. Uh. Cost of plus mints.
So doing the demonstrator. Oh, there's not a total over the ten years.
That's each individual year. Uh, this is each individual year, and then this is a sum of all of.
That accelerates another bit. Uh, but we're discussing the demonstrators specifically.
So, so so it's it's it's something like $500 million, isn't it?
Yes. Yes. So you could say it's a proof of manhood, so to speak, that that this community can command that kind of resources.
Uh, or there's probably a difference between how people feel about this on the east and west sides of the Atlantic.
Because you have certain backs, you then you can certainly get that level of resources.
But in the US, our community has never been able to. We've always been on a shoestring.
Uh, and the US is no longer a reliable partner when it comes to funding big projects.
So we've got to be careful if we're going to do a demonstrator in the US who's going to fund it.
Can we count on the funding continuing over the long term?
Uh, that's why I'm saying we shouldn't bite off more than necessary.
Donatella on audio comment. I think one of the things.
That, Steve, you want to comment on, my I was getting at or that can you can you say it again or can you say it again?
Preoccupied. Oh, okay. What I'm saying is, uh, I'm not confident that we can do a $500 million project in the US, even in Europe.
I think we're all in the same boat. It's very easy. Uh, let's call it that.
And if we say that, uh, it's a prerequisite, we don't want to do a muon collider unless we can do a $500 million demonstrator.
I think we're shooting ourselves in the foot.
We're better off to define the demonstrator as the minimal thing that's necessary to make the point, and then try to get the resources to do that.
Well, you know, I think I don't think we can come up with a pitch overnight.
I think what we have to do is, first of all, keep the community together and then, you know, uh, organically grow a case, right?
So, you know, just keep pushing and keep. I mean, this has to evolve in somewhat of a natural way, I think.
You know. So we have around five minutes left.
Final comments. Uh, I mean, uh, yeah, I do kind of want to comment because it is, um, this the the cost and the size of the project is a lot.
And it's something that, um, we've been hearing, uh, over, over and over again.
But I also don't think, um, I think, you know, we should still we shouldn't be discouraged by current events like I.
It's easy. It's easy for millennials to get discouraged after so many housing crashes.
And it's easy, you know, like, uh, grant suspensions.
I think we should we I mean, I think we should just define what we to find.
Likely minimum. Uh, these are important.
Um. Uh, yeah. We should put an envelope of what we need to try to do.
But I also think that, you know, um, the pursuit of doing something interesting is why we're here.
And so if we think that, uh. Yeah.
And I think that, you know, if it's technologically feasible and, um, we'll determine if it's going to be economically feasible,
but I don't I don't see that we should let it discourage us at this point.
Okay. Yeah, I, I okay, I don't know okay.
I mean I just this kind of, this kind of funding is not unprecedented.
Right. And this is a bad example. But you know, ITR was funded at about $200 million a year for a long time.
And, uh, you know, so it's possible, like I said, it's not a great example, but, um, you know, it's doable.
As a novice young person,
can you guys explain the context of why you're thinking getting the demo funded could possibly make the real one less likely?
It's not understandable to new people. It'll push it way off into the future.
If you if your goal is a ten year program that spends 500 million and it turns into a 30 year program,
then when do you actually build the muon collider?
But if it turned into a 30 year program, isn't that challenges you would have had to solve for the real one anyways, but it doesn't.
When that happens, it's not for a good reason. It's because the funding was delayed and you weren't.
You didn't have the resources to solve the unanticipated technical problems that came up.
It it's not because of the intrinsic difficulty. The problem is because you didn't have the resources to attack in the best way.
Uh, but if you're too ambitious, that's what that's what can happen.
So my original comment had to do with something else I want to say.
We're actually building several multi-billion dollar projects right at the moment, including pivot to LP,
UNF, Dune, um, and then few others that are at the scale of a few hundred million.
So I think it's not impossible.
And I would assume that if something like this gets approved in the US, hopefully U.S. is not the only country that has to pull it off.
And there are international contributions that help to offset, at least partially, the cost of us.
Um, the other thing I want to say is, I mean, it's hard for me to imagine that construction of a muon collider facility of this scale can real.
Even if you were to solve many technical, uh, challenges, the system was simply saturated with the ongoing projects.
Right? And if you look at the projected, uh, timeline for, you know, completion of, uh, LBM have to pivot to mutually,
uh, high Lumi upgrades, you're already pushing yourself, um, to, uh, kind of late 30s beginning for this, right?
Including al-Banna. Uh, Dune phase two. Um, so it's you.
You're already kind of looking for that something that's 15 years, uh, removed from today.
Uh, that's by definition, unless there is unless is no new money, significantly more money in the system than there is today.
Um, and then not for the demonstrator.
I meant for the facility itself. You see, a demonstrator, you can get a lot of enthusiasm to build an accelerator to do science.
And you can defend that project and its inherently strong.
This is inherently fragile. The whole muon collider is vulnerable.
If you say you need $1 billion project before you even started.
Yeah, I think we agree that if we can attach good physics to the demonstrator project, we would all benefit from it.
There is no question. A final point from Deb.
I mean, well, there is a question whether we are learning anything by building a string of modules when we if we can actually establish
that we can build one module reliably and then have a big construction project to build half a dozen of them or a half dozen.
Uh, uh, maybe it'd be better to go to another of the challenging hardware things that we need to demonstrate instead.
So, uh, on, uh, at time, uh, we can continue with the discussions.
Interesting. I do want to add a couple more things. And that thing is, well, for the 60 cooling.
So, you know, we're putting so many students and time towards designing it.
But before now it was just a bunch of dual beam lined floating cylinders until we said we're going to build the demonstrator.
Uh, now we have a Chrome module.
Now we have an engineering design, and now you can really see what the cooling and the 60 cooling needs in order for it to exist.
And I think that's a really nice direction that the intent of the demonstrator has already got us the and and just to put some, uh,
enthusiasm rather than just depression on the feature, I really like that we can see,
you know, the pancakes are starting to form and they're starting to be wound.
And that's something really new and exciting. And I'm really looking forward to the, uh, RF system, uh, and the five Tesla magna.
And I think the vision we have is then bringing us closer through the demonstrator.
Uh, uh, not final. Another thing.
Oh, I think there might be some points, but also we haven't mentioned industry connections and the fact that the,
uh, capture solenoids are 40 Kelvin, 40 Tesla, large aperture, high radiation environment.
We're starting to have those conversations. Uh, and because the magnets in a similar environments, uh, and so I think it's not completely hopeless,
uh, you know, depression and talk of funding and this whole idea that this is too big.
Was there any other wrap up points? Don't tell, did you?
Was switching off. Let me say that I think I see these things in a little.
I mean, in a different way is my own, uh, vision of that.
I think we should start with something. I mean, as was discussed.
So that is already available. So starting what? We have a building, uh, a building, a sale, maybe, and doing some, uh, some testing,
bringing them on beams and see, uh, what exactly we can learn from that.
But there are other experiments, other facilities that already have, uh, um,
muon beams where we can, uh, do something, learn how to deal with with muon beams, for example.
And, uh, the, uh, all idea of the demonstrator, to me at least, uh, is really tied to physics.
So we should try to build something that.
Okay, we call it demonstrator, but for me, something like, uh, I don't know if facility where we can start having,
uh, performant the muon beams where we can do some measurement, like, uh, dark matter searches,
uh, uh, as, uh, an A64 mu is doing at CERN at the moment or other searches a China I know that is proposing uh,
uh, some, some some, uh, uh, lepton flavor charge, lepton flavor violation searches with muon beams.
So probably we should start investigating these kind of things.
Or neutrino, uh, physics. Uh, related to that, we can do measurements that we can do with, uh, some beam.
So muons, and at the same time studying physics and doing, uh, these, uh, R&D for,
for the muon collider, otherwise, I think is very difficult to, to keep the community engaged.
Uh, on the physics community engage engaged in uh, is so difficult uh, a technical,
uh, technical, uh, uh, studies, uh, or advancement that we have to do.
Uh, and I agree that we should proceed with the muon collider without waiting for having, uh, the full chain or the full demonstration.
Because I agree with Melissa is it is almost impossible if you go to a funding agency and you demonstrated a little bit,
uh, and because we will compete with other projects, uh,
and it is going to be very easy for our competitors, uh, to say, oh, by you just don't come back when you have,
uh, the full object that they must see it and that it will be the Neverending Story.
Thank you for your thoughts on. Let's Go to coffee.
