# PM:  Computing + AI/ML: Parallels

Welcome to the, uh, computing in AI session.
Uh, parallel session. Uh, we'll have four talks each 15 minutes, but we added quite a bit of time for discussion.
So, uh, ask your questions.
And if you have questions that don't fit in within the themes of the four talks, we have time at the end of the four talks,
uh, we'll get kicked off by Ben, uh, from you, Chicago, who will tell us how to simulate a muon collider detector.
All right. Thanks. Uh, can you hear me?
Okay, maybe I'll just move this. Uh. Okay.
Can you hear me? Yeah. No.
All right. Okay.
How about now? Okay, great. Um, yeah.
So I was asked to talk about how to simulate a muon collider detector.
Um, and I think the joke I've been making all week is, you know, this is a good question.
And I would also like to know the answer to this question. Um, and so I mean that in two ways.
I mean, so we have this simulation framework for doing simulations and reconstruction of a muon collider detector.
Um, but, you know, there are really only a handful of experts, uh, who are familiar with the details of that framework and able to kind of produce,
you know, large statistics samples with the full beam and use background overlay included.
So that's obviously, you know, a limitation. Um, and then also, you know, yes, we can produce samples and perform studies,
but I think we know there are many areas where we could either be more realistic in some of the modeling that we're doing,
um, or where there's room for future improvement. Um, and so opportunities for maybe all of you to get involved and contribute.
Um, so what I'll do in this talk is kind of talk you through how we have been generating samples,
uh, which have been used to study the Maya detector performance.
Um, most of what I'm going to say also applies to, you know, the music detector as well.
Um, but I work on Maya, and I'm more familiar with Maya. And there will be a few Maya specific things.
Um, so what are those samples? So here, uh, you know, if you went to someone's talk yesterday, uh, or the, um, sort of performance parallel talks,
uh, you'll have sort of gotten a lot of information about the latest Maya studies.
Um, but we had kind of started by just looking at single particle samples muons, photons and neutrons.
Um, you know, reconstructed, simulated and reconstructed in our software framework with the beam induced background added in.
You can see these very nice event displays of this. Um, we're starting to look at more complex objects now.
But basically the story of how to simulate and reconstruct is is the same.
Um, so I should tell you that, you know, if you don't know, we have a tutorial, um, online, um, on the sort of muon collider detector wiki here,
uh, which kind of goes through everything, you know, all, every all of the things I'm going to say.
Um, so how to set up the software run Monte Carlo generation simulation, digitization, beam induced background overlay reconstruction.
So we ran this tutorial at Usmca last year, and in past years it was run at other workshops as well.
So, uh, it's still there. Um, I encourage you to take a look.
You know, we got some very nice positive feedback on this tutorial in the past, namely that maybe unlike some other tutorials, it actually works.
Uh, not always true. Um, but the tutorial is using the three TV detector and not the ten TV detectors.
So what I'll do in this talk is kind of go through these steps.
And then at the end point you with some updated instructions if you want to play around with Mario.
So here is what our software framework looks like.
I took this flowchart, um, from a, uh, computing summary talk that Carroll gave at Ecmc, uh, two months ago.
Uh, as you may have heard, and some on his talk yesterday, uh,
the software framework was originally kind of inherited from the ILC software framework.
So much of what we're using comes to us from the E plus C minus community rather than from the LHC community.
And it is now being migrated to this Kieffer Hep, um, experiment sort of independent framework.
We were able to share code with FCC, click ILC and other future collider projects.
Now you can sort of start with your favorite Monte Carlo generator,
and then run simulation through this DD for Hep framework, which I'll say more about on the next slide.
Then digitization and reconstruction. Um, you if you look kind of at documentation and things, you'll encounter references to Marlin,
which was the sort of framework for running reconstruction and digitization in the ILC software.
We're kind of in the process of migrating from that to a more modern, Gaudi based framework.
Uh, if you don't know, Gowdy is kind of the software that underpins, um,
the Atlas, uh, Athena framework and some of the other LHC experiment frameworks.
And it's sort of maybe more familiar to many LHC people, um, for scheduling algorithms and things.
And then, uh, in the diagram here, you know, it says we sort of produce root output.
Actually, at the moment we are still kind of producing this um, ILC format, AE output, but it's easy enough to convert to root for data analysis.
And that's basically what we do.
And then uh, the software is now being built kind of automatically and published as container images, um, based on both ubuntu and on the Linux.
Uh, you can download them and run them on your laptop. Or if you want to run them on a cluster, they're being replicated to KVM, NFS automatically.
And again, I'll say more about that at the end. So um, suppose that you have some events, uh, that come from your favorite Monte Carlo generator or.
In our case, you know, single particle events produced by a particle gun.
And you want to simulate them. How do you do that?
So the main thing that you need is a description of the detector geometry that you can pass to John for.
And so for Hep kind of provides a framework for specifying these detector geometries, um, just in the form of XML files.
So there's a repository and key for Hep that where you can find collections of different geometry files for muon collider detectors.
Also other you know it plus the minus detectors. And I kind of just um, took a look at what, you know, what is in there.
But you can go and look at it and look at the other files so you can see this is, you know, the Maya geometry.
There's some comments here. It was written by Federico Meloni.
Um, by the way, if you don't know, like, most of what I'm, Federico is like the main expert in muon collider software reconstruction.
Um, much of what I'm saying is kind of delivered from him, through me to you.
Um, so, uh, and then, um, you can see if, you know, if you scroll down,
you can find the XML files that specify the different subsystems of the detector, like the vertex detector, the tracker, the outer tracker.
So if you want to know any information about those detectors, of course you can look at the Maya detector paper,
but you can if you want to know where it's implemented in code, you know this is where it lives.
And so then, um, the geometry is loaded into GD for Hep, which provides some wrapper around John.
For that you can run simulation and we have a steering file.
Um, that should basically just work out of the box, uh, for, for loading the Maya detector and running simulation.
So then after simulation in the traditional reconstruction pipeline would be digitization.
Now, you know, normally in digitization, I mean, obviously the detector doesn't exist.
So the digitization by, you know, necessity has to be somewhat simplified, but we still apply things like resolutions.
Um, we have a sampling calorimeter. So the sampling fraction of the of the M calorimeter, uh thresholding um calorimeter cells and stuff like that.
But the main thing that happens around the digitization step is the beam induced background overlay.
Um, so this is a flowchart kind of describing roughly how the data is moving around.
Um, the beam induced background is comes to us from the MDI experts,
is generated in flukey and generating a single bunch crossing and simulating it is really computationally expensive.
So we don't have very many of these. So what is done is this kind of sub event mixing procedure where we, uh,
simulate fractions of a bunch crossing and then build pseudo events from them in a sort of statistically independent way.
And then those pseudo events get overlaid, uh, representing a full bunch crossing.
Although if you want, you can produce pseudo events that are less than or more than a full bunch crossing.
Um, if, for example, you want to study how varying amounts of beer affect the performance of some algorithm.
Now the only sort of issue with this process is it does mean you need the full data set of simulated, um, you know, bib events available when you run,
even just to overlay one event, you need the entire sort of input, uh, bib available on whatever worker you're running.
Digitization. Um, so I just want to say a few more things about the bib overlay because it's such an important part of the process.
So it's really worth emphasizing that what we get from Luca is the bib simulated up to the detector volume.
Uh, so the detector volume here, meaning the surface of the shielding nozzles.
So if you look at plots like this,
Luca is telling us how many particles are entering the detector and what their energy is and what time they enter the detector.
But it's not actually modeling the interaction of those particles with the detector itself.
Um, and obviously those can be very different things.
If you want to know, you know, what is the level of activity in your tracker?
You know, how many hits you have. You have to actually run Jayant and run the simulation over what you get from Luca.
And we have some scripts for doing that. It's basically exactly the same procedure.
Um, there are a few details there, but yeah, you you as if you are simulating signal events.
You can simulate what you get from Luca. Um, yeah.
And so then another detail here, which, um, JP talked about yesterday, is that because so much of the bib is low energy neutrons,
um, it's really important that you model the nuclear interactions of those neutrons with your detector accurately.
Um, and so using the right physics list and ground for us is really important to get, get those kinds of things right.
Okay. Um, and then another point about the bib that I really want to make is that, you know,
when the Maya detector studies started, we were using an older version of the MDI lattice, which you can see up here.
Um, which notably has a lot more dipole and quadrupole magnets than the version that we are currently the current baseline.
Um, and I think that, you know, evolution was really driven from an accelerator design point of view.
But a practical consequence is that there's less bending power to deflect bib out of the detector,
which means you end up with much higher rates of beam induced background.
In the detector itself. Um, so this is sort of an updated, uh, plot of the occupancy use you would see in the tracker, you know,
maybe in the lattice before you might end up with, say, 1600 hits per centimeter squared in the innermost layer of the tracker.
Now we're talking more like 16,000 hits per centimeter squared,
which obviously poses major computational challenges when it comes to reconstruction, data processing and so on.
Um, and Kara already talked a bit about what we can do about this yesterday.
There will be more on tracking as well in the next talk. But but just to make that point explicitly that this is a potential concern.
Um, okay. I'll say a few things about reconstruction.
Um, basically, you know,
we now are able to we have a single sort of steering file that you can use to run both digitization and reconstruction in one step.
Um, if you compare it to what's in the tutorial, they were sort of doing it in two separate steps, but that's just a detail.
Um, and the reconstruction framework depends on several sort of key external software packages.
Um, acts for track reconstruction. Again, that'll be covered more in the next talk.
Um, and then Pandora uh, particle flow uh, for sort of reconstructing, uh, objects.
Um, Greg talked about this yesterday. I think there are many issues kind of in using Pandora in a muon collider environment.
And we're in the process of adapting, uh, in that direction.
Um, and then so in part motivated by the really high rates of fib that we see now with the latest version of the lattice,
I do want to, you know, talk about two major specific things that we implemented into the reconstruction.
Um, so one is the use of cloning,
where you look for truth particles and you only actually process and keep them that are within some delta r range around that truth particle.
I mean, if you have a single muon events, you know, you really don't need to worry about the bib on the other side of your tracker.
Um, to understand, you know, whether you're able to see that that muon track or not.
Um, so this is partially already implemented in the software framework.
Uh, we had written another processor for doing this in the calorimeter as well.
Um, it's currently not merged into the sort of official images, but you can download and build it yourself.
And then another thing um, we implemented in in for the calorimeter is kind of uh variable thresholds.
So basically in the parts of the calorimeter where there's more bib kind of very close to the innermost layer, um, in the forward region here,
we can apply a higher threshold to kind of just remove that bib, you know, subtract that bib away from reconstruction without having to process it.
Um, that's kind of a brute force approach. Obviously, the higher your thresholds, the worse your energy resolution.
Um, so we would like to, you know, study smarter algorithms for this in the future, like taking timing information into account.
But this is what we've implemented for the time being. Okay.
Um, so just to give you some practical things. So you may or may not know that the open science grid, um,
in the US has dedicated muon collider computing resources that I think anyone in this room is able to sign up for and get an account.
Um, the process is pretty simple. Um, I mean, if you have questions about it, you can reach out to me.
Um, but basically, uh, I've given you a link here.
You can sign in. Um, or, you know, using your institute affiliation, request an account request to join a group.
And then if you just send us a message on slack asking for approval.
Uh, it should be processed pretty quickly.
Um, and then, you know, the samples we've been using for the Maya studies are actually available on this machine.
Um, you're more than welcome to grab them and start tinkering with them yourself.
Um, I've provided paths, uh, both for the sort of particle gun inputs as well as the reconstructed objects.
You can also find the bib, um, which is important if you want to simulate something yourself to have the latest version of the bib.
So we have both the bib after, you know, running through simulation as well as the direct Fluker output.
Um, now one thing I'll say is that currently we just kind of have a Google spreadsheet listing the samples that we've made,
which is not a very scalable solution. Um, one thing that we discussed at the Ecmc workshop, uh, was maybe the possibility of setting up a Ruscio,
which is the software Atlas and CMS use for managing data sets.
It sounded like it might not be much overhead involved in doing that.
Um, so I think this would be really useful and something we should explore, uh, soon.
Okay. Um, and then if you want to run things yourself, I know there's a lot of information on this slide,
but I just want to say, um, we now have instructions on the wiki, um, the same wiki where the tutorial is.
Uh, this is a link, um, for running Maya itself rather than the three TV detector.
There's still a little rough there. There's some, you know, more manual stuff that you have to do.
Um, but it should be enough to get you started. And again, if you have questions, please, please reach out to me.
Um, so we're working on updating our documentation.
Um, another thing is, is kind of the best practices for doing bulk sample production on the OSG via Condor.
Um, all of our. Samples were kind of produced elsewhere and transferred over to the OSG.
Um, for example,
there's some software that needs to be added to the container images for doing file transfer to and from the workers and just kind of stuff like this,
that, that we still have to sort of document and implement.
Um, okay. So I think that's it. Um, I want to emphasize, you know, there's a ton of work that's been done over the last few years on simulation,
but there's many areas where more person power would be welcome.
As I mentioned at the beginning, there's not a lot of software experts right now.
Um, I've listed a few here. Uh, I won't again. I won't go through all this,
but basically providing fast simulation resources so you can look at the performance of Maya without having to do a full simulation.
Um, you know, providing better documentation, better reconstruction algorithms, stuff like that.
So, yeah. That's it. Thanks. Thank you.
Ben. Other questions? Hi, Brian.
Uh, thanks for coming. And everything from what you've shown so far.
Yes, that's meant for the US. More on cloud or community to use or also for the international community to use.
Are there like two separate sets of both?
Um, so I mean, like I think, for example, the tutorial is something that, you know, this is a CERN URL like Ecmc, people were involved in this.
I mean, it really the software is all kind of shared between between both communities.
Um, I mentioned at the beginning, you know, Federico is obviously a desi, but we've been working very closely with him on reconstruction.
Um, it's really it's really both communities.
Yeah, I know there's like some on Federico personal account,
so I guess there's a plan to kind of consolidate everything in one place on some level, because otherwise it feels very mishmash together.
It is very mishmash together. I think as as Usmca becomes more organized, I think more organization on the,
on the sort of storage of samples and things is, is, uh, is something we'll work towards.
So you talk about developing, uh, fast in simulation, but if you want to, um, work with, uh,
simulating the muon detector, you kind of intrinsically have to care about, uh, the bib.
So, uh, how are you going to progress on making, like, a fast simulation when still, uh, integrating the bib in, uh, some aspect.
So, um, first things like Delphi's, you know, we can provide, like, efficiencies and resolutions based on studies done with bib.
Um, the thing that is kind of more difficult to give people is fake rates.
Uh, I think that's something we would have to discuss. But, I mean, something that was also pointed out is we could just assume, you know,
some level of Bib mitigation and put that into the fast simulation, and then at least, you know, a theorist would have access to the geometry.
And then we might have to check things in full simulation, but they'd be able to do stuff.
So but yeah, that that part is, is, I think an open question.
Thank you for the nice overview. Um, uh, so in previous talks, we've also heard about, um, the computational resources necessary to generate,
uh, the big samples, like it takes a month per bunch crossing, something like that.
Crazy. Um, what are some opportunities both on the, uh, event simulation side?
So, like, generating big events and also, uh, later on processing big events.
Are people exploring ways to to optimize that process? And what does that look like?
Yeah, definitely. So I think some of the next talks will cover this more.
But I mean, one as one potential, you know, opportunity is to is to leverage machine learning to replace some of these things.
Um, if you generate enough events in future and then you train a model on what you've generated and,
uh, then you don't have to, you know, you can just kind of go to that model.
Um, so I think, uh, obviously this talk will cover AI, and then Kevin, we'll talk about resources later.
So there should be more on that to come. Okay.
I think we should move on since we have, uh, uh, time for discussion at the end.
Uh. Next up is lucky from Stanford, who will tell us about tracking software and ML technique.
Which is vehicles.
Thank you. I don't know if I have anything that's.
I think it's. Okay.
Hello, everyone.
So, okay, I'll be talking about tracking software, uh, for the main collider and, uh, some of the machine learning application for tracking.
So moving on. So what is tracking? So, uh, as we all know, is reconstructing trajectories of the charged particles, uh,
through the detector, and, uh, it has it is an essential component of the, uh, even reconstruction.
It has, uh, it's useful for identifying the primary and secondary vertices, and it also useful for suppressing the pileup and other backgrounds and,
uh, also identify the particle type and also measure the charge and momenta.
So in essential, we can say that the tracking is useful in identifying what particles were produced,
where they came from, how fast they were moving, and whether they belong to rare or interesting processes are not.
So I would like to talk about some of the unique challenges that we have for tracking in the muon collider environment.
So coming to, uh, the first one, as we know, is a beam induced background.
So we know that muon decay with a very short lifetime.
So the secondary and tertiary products of, uh,
the injections of the decay products with the uh detector material results in de beam induced background.
So here we can see, um, uh, the, uh, the immediate background from uh, uh, million decay coming from, uh, the right side here is injection point.
And if you remove the neutron, this is, um, containing the electrons and protons and positrons, and this is a decay near the interaction point.
So, um, uh, the beam induced background is really composed of, uh, the high rates of electrons and positrons and photons and,
uh, neutrons and a small contribution from the charge agents and, and the secondary muons.
So, uh, in order to tackle some of this, uh, background, uh, the map collaboration suggested, um,
I am also shooting around, um, uh, the, uh, the forward area of the, uh, region of the detector.
So here, uh, it's a simple diagram showing, uh, the neutral shielding, uh, where we have, uh,
this nozzle in the green and in the purple at the forward region here, the detector geometry will be placed.
And, uh, this shooting has an opening angle of around ten degrees and, uh, 12 centimeter distance between the depths.
So this is, uh, like an initial design. Obviously, it will be optimized further.
Um, so, uh, and this nozzle shielding has, uh, is able to reduce the, uh, to around three orders of magnitude and, but still, uh, in the,
uh, transverse region and also, uh, the, uh, particles coming out from the nozzle, we still have a significant amount of the background.
Uh, here, this picture, uh, this, uh, table shows the particle rates for, uh,
in the transfer direction for different central mass energy, uh, produced by Luca.
So we can see that for the different particles.
Uh, these are the ranges for, um, uh, for the particles in the range of channels, about 5 to 10,006 for a different central mass energy.
And it can be seen that there is a very moderate energy dependance, um, of, uh, the number of the particles.
And these particles are characterized by, uh, the low momentum.
So most of them are, uh, very low momentum particles, and they have a long spread in the, uh, the Z direction.
And also they have a broad arrival time distribution.
Now, uh, along with that, they also lead to the severe heat density in the detector.
So the density in the muon collider is around ten times what we expect for the, um, uh, high humility at the full pile up.
So, um, here we can see, um, now this table shows, uh, for the atlas.
I, uh, indicate, uh, the heat density. And this is for the MTD equivalent heat density, and it's almost, um, ten times.
And so this results to around 1000 or more hits in the detector per centimeter square and in the innermost layer.
And so this literally leads to a combinatorial explosion in the, uh, direct reconstruction.
So to give you an idea. So there are around 150,000 uh, uh, tracks in the, uh, Jagger and, uh, around out of these, around 100 thousands are fakes.
And these figures are mainly characterized by the low momentum and low number of associated heads.
So, uh, so we have these problems with the tracking.
So, uh, let's talk about some of the solutions that we can, uh, have to, uh, achieve, uh, decent track reconstruction in one collider.
So the first one is to incorporate timing information.
So as we have seen that the web has, uh, a broad arrival time distribution.
So, uh, around zero is the, um, interaction point.
And so if you apply, um, um, a timing curve to the we will be able to mitigate some of the web and there are multiple ways to apply,
uh, uh, the timing information.
So some of these are uh, the, the 3D, uh, tracking with the timing layer,
a one timing layer, or maybe 3D plus 4D tracking where we have some layers with timing,
and then the dedicated 4D tracking where each sensor has both the timing and, uh, space information.
Uh. The. This is the strategy that has been adopted by Atlas and CMS for high Lumi.
Let's see. And uh, here uh is the in the picture is that Atlas, uh, high granularity timing detector,
which, uh, has a timing layer, uh, um, all in the anchor region and in the CMS,
uh, MTD, we have, uh, the timing layer in both in the barrel and the anchor region,
and both are based on the Alga technology with around 1.3 to 1.3, uh, square sensor.
And they have a timing resolution of 30 to 50, uh, picoseconds, but with, uh, space resolution of in the, uh, around millimeters.
Now coming to the 4D tracking. So this, uh, here we require, uh, but per hitch,
timing information with a timing resolution of around 30 to 50 picoseconds and, uh, space resolution in the micrometers.
And this is the critical requirement for the muon collider. So why that is the case here are for some of the, uh, reasons for that.
So 4D tracking will help us remove the out of time bib, uh, very early in the reconstruction chain.
And it will also help in the 4D track reconstruction by providing an extra handle.
And it will help in better track to vertex reconstruction.
So uh, the extra vertices will be removed very easily.
It will enable the 4D clustering as well as the particle flow and the particle identification using the time of flight information,
as well as the time of flight information, can help in identifying the non prompt signatures as well.
Now uh, moving forward. So uh, there are uh, interesting R&D efforts ongoing right now.
We are able to achieve the picosecond level of, uh, timing resolution through algorithms.
But we still have to achieve the space resolution of the order of micrometers.
So there are intensive R&D efforts going on, uh, in developing the detectors for that.
And we have seen, uh, some of the talks from Christian and, uh, which are in the morning.
And also there was this, uh, tracking workshop on the 4D tracking last year.
So I would like you to have a look on that as well. Now I'm moving further to, uh, look for some other solution to that.
So that is like checking with machine learning and checking with time aware machine learning.
So if you have the timing information, that can also help us with the machine learning as well.
So here, here I will, uh, go through some of the, um, uh, the machine learning techniques that has already been used for um, in Atlas and CMS.
And I'll be more biased toward Atlas because I work with Atlas. So, uh, but the similar efforts are ongoing in the CMS as well.
So the first one is the track reconstruction using the graph neural networks or the time of agents.
So, uh, GNN is actually very naturally fits into the scheme of uh, tracking.
It's naturally a graph problem here. We can consider hits as the nodes and the potential connection between the hits as the edges.
And therefore the tracking is essentially identifying the relationship between the nodes and edges.
And so, um, graphs in graph neural network can, uh, really help in tracking and timing information can uh, add is a powerful new dimension here.
This, uh, graph shows the GNN for IK timeline, uh, sorry, pipeline, which is, uh,
um, uh, the algorithm, uh, that is being studied for, uh, in Atlas for, uh, it HMG.
So here we have the information and the graph is constructed using that.
Um, so all the, uh, hits are connected through the edges and then, uh, the network is trained and all the edges are numbered,
and then only the, the edges with higher score are retained to get the tracked candidates.
Now moving further, another application is the primary vertex finder using the CNN and GNN.
So, um, we can consider primary vertices as the collision point in the.
And the z axis is essentially a one dimensional image.
So a convolutional neural network can be useful. And likewise to associate the Dijkstra to vertices we can consider it equal into a graph.
Um uh problem. So we can use a GNN. So here uh, is the pipeline for the Atlas V finder where we are using, uh,
the track information as input to o to the, uh, CNN, uh, to get the predictions for the primary vertices.
And then these predictions are used along with the track information into a graph, uh, to get the connections between the tracks and vertices.
Moving further, we have another project that, uh, explored the hard was, uh, a schedule vertex selection using the genes.
So here, um, this plot shows, uh, the some, uh, high, uh,
schedule vertex selection efficiency as a function of the pileup for different physics processes.
And it can be seen that the efficiency goes really down as we have a missing energy in the final states.
So the sum square approach is not the best metric for all the physics processes.
Uh, but if we use all the various physics objects to train the model, then it can really help us in hard scatter vertex selection.
And, uh, if we add timing information on top of that, that can be very useful.
So here is, uh, the atlas edges G and two. Wood pipeline where we are using the tracks electron mills,
jets and photons information um into a graph neural network to predict the, uh, whether the vertex is a hard schedule vertex or not.
Another tool that can be useful is the anomaly detection. Um, and uh, some of the tools for uh, hit clustering as well for the uh, Bip suppression.
So anomaly detection can be very useful to suppressing the non signal heat clusters and the energy deposits in the tracking and the calorie meters.
And uh these models can actually learn the typical signal, uh, signal type, uh, um, uh,
bedrooms and the flag out of like out of time, um, or diffuse or the isolated activities that are characteristics of the web.
And, uh, this also allows the filtering of the background before reconstruction.
So it will improve the accuracy and efficiency.
And also we can use, uh, other deep learning based supervised machine learning models to combine, um, that's combined with the precision timing,
uh, to improve, uh, um, to predict the correct cluster shape and, uh, discriminate against the, uh, beam hits.
So these are some of the, um, uh, ideas that can be useful for, um, uh, for the tracking in, uh, in the, um, beyond collider and moment.
Now, I would like to spend like, very little on the Muon Collider software framework.
So Ben has talked a lot more on it.
So I will not spend too much time. But, uh, just to give you an overview, Wen has almost covered everything.
So we have this, uh, Muon Collider software framework, which is based on, uh, uh, Lio and uh, is build on the on top of key for Hab.
It has these frameworks for Gaudi, for the primary, uh uh, uh, application framework for simulation and deconstruction.
Then we are using Marlin for most of the reconstruction algorithms.
And then we have this K for modeling wrapper, which actually help us, uh, run the Marlin algorithms inside the key for help, um, you know, framework.
And then we have asked for track reconstruction for the event data model.
We are using both, uh, the key for hep, uh, EDM, which is the EDM for have, and the LCR, which is from Marlin.
And, uh, we basically convert between the these two formats to, uh, get our work done and a little bit about.
So it is uh, um, it's a short for a common tracking software.
So it's an open source track reconstruction software, and it's, uh, detector agnostic and it's based on model C plus plus.
So it's very fast. It, uh, also has support for the 4D track, uh, tracking measurements.
So, um, uh, we are using this algorithm as, uh, integrated within the muon collider software, um, to reconstruct the tracks and how we do,
uh, do we do this is using a wrapper that's called the tracking, where we convert the, uh, the EDM between the SEIU and the acts.
Um, and then, uh, perform the track reconstruction within acts, and then, uh,
convert the data back to the Alco EDM, which can be further used downstream.
Okay. So this brings me to the conclusion. So, uh, uh, the tracking and beyond Collider is challenging,
and it poses the challenges that has never seen before, uh, in the, in the previous collider.
So and so for uh, on Collider 4D tracking is not just desirable.
It's critical. And machine learning definitely helps.
Um, offer the promising tools that to address uh, uh, the various, uh, problems related to tracking.
And this progress will require tight integration between the detector R&D as well as the software and, uh, um, algorithm development.
So I would like to and, uh, with this, uh, one align, that main collider is not just a challenge.
It's actually an opportunity for us to redefine tracking.
So yeah. That's all. Thank you. Thank you.
Lucky. Uh. Are questions. Hi.
Thank you. This is super interesting.
Um, I was just wondering, on slide 12, you have, like, this diagram of, like, 3D and timing layer and then 3D and 4D tracking and 4D tracking.
What would I mean? Yeah, it's there too. But what is the benefit of doing the 3D and 4D like I don't understand the sort of middle.
So so when I say 3D and timing layers. So here we have.
So the black ones are just the, the regular uh,
pixel detector or like regular tracking detector which gives you the space, uh, 3D position information.
And then you have a timing layer which will give you a timing information for, uh, for the track.
So what you do is that is, uh, how this kind of thing is useful is like, you cannot use this timing information before the track reconstruction.
So once you have the track reconstruction, then you can actually attach a time stamp with each of the track.
And then it can be useful for like, uh, um, awaiting the pileup and uh, uh, you know, downstream.
Um, it can be helpful, but it is. But for the muon collider, we actually have the problem at the track reconstruction level.
We will not I mean, the track reconstruction itself will be so compromised because of the so many hits that we want to remove that,
uh, the extra hits before doing the track reconstruction.
And so therefore we need the 4D tracking for that because we want the, uh, the timing information with each hits with these sensors.
So that will be helpful to, uh, to do some kind of maybe machine learning algorithm or applying some hidden clustering and some,
uh, cuts at the head level and also at the trigger level as well to remove, uh, some of the, uh, big hits.
And so we can do the effective reconstruction. Yeah. Totally agree.
I just meant I didn't understand what the middle. So the middle one is like an intermediate approach where you can have like instead of one timestamp,
you can maybe have like 2 or 3 timestamps by track, but it's not like a full 4D track.
Okay. That's all right. Thank you. I think there's a question of the.
Hierarchy. Um, so at Atlas,
the number of track seeds is several order of magnitude slower than what you're seeing here from the slide that you put in previously.
Yeah. So how significant is the track reconstruction efficiency going to be impacted by several order of magnitudes higher number of track seats.
Can you give me like a number of like, uh, like with these numbers.
Yeah. I mean if with these many fake tracks you are able to achieve like around 100% efficiency, maybe like 90 to 95%, but the fakes are quite good.
Like as a huge like in Atlas, you will get good efficiency with very almost negligible amount of secret.
But here the fake rate is huge. So the main problem is not the efficiency but to, you know, get rid of the fakes.
Uh, so even if you get the higher, uh, like 100% efficiency, but the fake rate is so high that it's, it's it's not useful, I see.
So how can timing sort of improve the ability to get rid of this?
So the timing, first of all, will help you get rid of most of the hits that are not coming from your primary collision.
Um, so you already have, uh, a cleaner input for your tracking.
So that's one thing. Also, uh, when you are doing the track reconstruction, you can use the timing information at that level also.
So that will help you increase the efficiency and reduce the fake rate.
Great. Thank you. Okay. Last question.
So on this plot the red histogram said that there are only four hits on average on these tracks.
You still consider them as part of the tracks. And that's why the number is kind of 50,000.
I mean yeah. So yeah, for this one it's considered as a part of the track.
Like even uh, so basically here is talking about the track seeds, not like the complete tracks.
So the track seeds are like two or 3 or 4 TS, but yeah.
So it's like the fix in the track seeds is. So it's like in that at the track seeding level, the combinatorial, um, uh, complexity is too high.
And so you have to, you know, when you are building the tracks, then definitely the one who are not matching,
like usually we require at least five hits belonging to, uh, one track that we considered as a track.
So then definitely you can get rid of some of them. So. Okay.
Thank you again. Lucky. Thank you.
Next up we have Abhijit from, uh, Fermilab, who will tell us, uh, what opportunities ML will bring and maybe how ChatGPT will design everything.
Good. Uh, yeah. That's good. Thanks. Yeah.
No kidding. I went and I said, good. What are people doing in Myanmar? Collider for machine learning.
And, uh, it gave me a bunch of stuff, but some real, some fictional.
But it made me think. And, uh, I wanted to ask this question, what are people doing with machine learning with Mayan Collider?
And what are the opportunities that we have that we haven't exploited yet?
Uh, for machine learning with me on Collider. So a couple of disclaimers.
One, uh, uh, this is no way a full, comprehensive list of all the ML activities and opportunities that are happening in Myanmar Collider.
And the second thing is this talk is intended intended to be more like a blue sky of opportunities, of what can we do with my own collider?
So let's go ahead with this. So before we go in, we need to understand what muon collider is and what do we need.
Uh, for this collider we know is, uh, very high energy mission, which also brings high precision.
What do we need to make this successful? First, we need to accelerate muons to, uh, really high energy ten TV.
And we should have significant luminosity, uh, in this mission.
Beams to have a successful physics program. On top of that, we need to have detectors which are optimized to study these muon collisions really well.
Uh, we need precise reconstruction on top of that.
To do precise reconstruction, we should mitigate all the beam induced background that we have over there.
And, uh, another thing that we need to do in muon Collider or any of the future colliders is that you
should basically have a trigger stream and write out everything that we see over there.
And I don't think it's a really big issue for muon colliders are not go into more details
about this because CMS at the moment is currently reading out a scouting stream at uh,
22kHz, which is roughly the rate that you would have with the muon collider.
So all these, uh, items that I've highlighted over here require significant R&D.
So as a community, if we are faced with challenges and how do we fix these challenges?
And the answer is with wishing, learning and hopefully try to convince you by the end of the talk, the some of these things are possible.
So yeah, just coming back again, I'll be focusing on these aspects, uh, of the muon Collider.
And as, as I mentioned, this is not a full comprehensive list. There's more stuff that we can do over here with machine learning.
Uh, so I talked about rigorous readout. That should be part of every future collider system.
But the biggest roadblock that I see for Muon Collider is basically coming from beam induced background,
which basically lights up the entire detector quite a bit.
So we need to find a way to suppress, uh, the beam in this background over here at the detector level.
So the way we can do that is with on detector, uh, readout and filtering.
And we can do this with some of the smart algorithms. The one search effort, uh, that I'm tangentially part of is smart pixels, where, uh,
we put the ML algorithms on the pixel sensors to, uh, filter out some of the low pit tracks that we have over here.
There is adaptations of smart Pixels. Work which is intended for phase three of LRT is already being, uh, adapted for like Muon Collider.
Eric presented a poster on this yesterday, and this is, uh, an excerpt from his poster.
And first and foremost is to do the studies you need to simulate.
And a lot of questions about simulating Bip so far. And it's computationally very, very expensive to do that.
So how do we do that? Uh, we can use generative ML to solve the, uh, the expensive computational part of generating web.
Uh, I'm not going to talk more about how we can use generative ML, um, in, uh, simulating.
I think Kevin will talk a bit about it, but a question that I wanted to ask us, should we just stop at generating,
uh, events for our detector studies, or can we do more with these, uh, generative ML that we do for Bip simulation?
So a natural question that I try to dig through in the muon Collider, uh,
all the IMT reports and everything is a major design factor that will contribute to
the profile that you see in the detector is coming from machine detector interface.
So if you optimize your MDI to be really, really well, you can cut down by quite a bit while having a good detector performance.
So can we use some of the existing machine learning techniques, uh, to, uh, optimize the machine detector interface,
like the way we optimize a neural network algorithm is by using gradient descent.
The biggest roadblock for this is that the Fluker and giant are very expensive to run, and they're not differentiable inherently.
So this is the current approach that we take. We have some design parameters, and we go through some simulations and we compare the output.
And we do this entire chain whenever we have to optimize a particular algorithm.
And it's a very expensive process.
So we can replace that, uh, with the surrogate model, which can be, uh, generative ML that is trained on some of the simulations that we have.
And with this you can have a differentiable method that you can, uh, look at the output.
And try to go back to what design parameters would give you the desired output at the end of the day.
So with this kind of a differentiable twin, we can fully optimize the machine detector interface and get, uh, good uh, parameters.
So this is not, uh, just a blue sky area. There are some of the efforts, uh, that have been presented in IMT workshop where they're taking this, uh,
concept and they're implementing it where they try to optimize the nozzle design, uh, to reduce the big profile over here.
So, yeah, you can see more about these things. So second thing is I just wanted to ask myself,
is using the surrogate models like an approximate method is the only way that we can have to do some of the model approximation.
The answer is no. They're existing efforts which are trying to make giant inherently differentiable.
Uh, given some uh input particle parameters on your detector layout, you can optimize and you can see how the, uh,
detector shape is, and you can basically optimize a giant, uh, to match a particular energy deposition potential.
So there's more on this work over here, and there's, like, a active field.
And this, uh, yeah. I was told by the authors that there's more results coming up in the near future.
And on top of that, once we have our optimized detectors,
we need to do some sort of reconstruction to quickly evaluate how the model performance is going on to be.
Uh, there are existing efforts that are trying to do like a cross detector particle flow backbone model,
so you can train a particular backbone model and give it a new detector geometry and few examples.
And it will be able to, uh, give you like the end performance over here.
So these kind of models can be used to quickly check how your detector performance is going to be,
how our physics object reconstruction is going to be.
And we can also use this as a perfect surrogate model to optimize the entire, uh, detector geometry.
But I went through like this part of the talk, and I went with this idea.
And one day I went to Sergio's office and I asked him, like, what do you really care about in the next five years?
And so far, I've just talked about the particle detector, to my surprise, and I guess to no one's surprise.
Uh, the thing that we really care about for the next five years is the the initial part to make me on Collider feasible,
where we want to have a good target system and a cooling system and have a demonstrator to show that collider is feasible.
So we can take some of the techniques that we have talked about over here and extend it to, uh, optimizing some of the target and capture system.
The main, uh, if you're in the school, you know that the main challenge in designing this kind of targets,
which are getting, uh, multi like megawatt, uh, proton beams, is that they have to sustain very high power and intensity.
And you need really powerful magnets to focus, uh, uh, to focus on muons and get it to cooling.
And your cooling performance is also very dependent on how well your target, uh, is working over here.
So there's already efforts that we have right now in making John differentiable.
And my hope is that we can take these things and adapt it into the G4 beam line,
which is being used by some of the summer students to, uh, do studies of target and get a very, uh, optimized target design.
And another optimization that we can perform for, which is critical for muon collider is for the cooling.
Cooling can make or break, uh, your experiment on some experimental program on some level,
because the luminosity risk that you have is massive coming out of the cooling system.
But optimizing the cooling system is no walk in the park because there are orders of hundreds of,
uh, parameters that you need to tune to get the best performance out of it.
So we can use some of the, uh, existing machine learning techniques to optimize, uh, the cooling, uh, such as,
like the Bayesian optimization, where we can feed the, uh, a surrogate model or like some of the test beam.
So some of the experiments that we have over here try to find what are the optimal conditions that we have to get the best cooling performance.
And yeah, here's an animation of how if you have, uh, inherent latent profile where you have like a maximum reward,
uh, these algorithms tend to point to you, uh, to this things.
And my hope is that we can also use this kind of optimization systems with not just for the best performance.
We can also optimize this, uh, to reduce the overall cost that we have in the entire system.
And along with that, uh, we have to talk about what we have to do with the rest of the collider system,
uh, is basically how we can use machine learning for real time beam control.
So far, I've talked about, like, how we can use, uh, some of the data, uh, build a surrogate model on that and do some design optimization.
But it doesn't end there. We can always use a surrogate model, uh, to see what conditions the current accelerator are running in,
and use that to control the system to get the optimal performance and have a full grip on the beam dynamics that we have over there.
Um. I try to ask if this is a system that is even feasible to implement.
Uh, to do that, I've looked at the collider. Uh, sorry, accelerator that we have in our backyard, uh, the Fermilab booster there.
Uh, some of these techniques are already being used.
Uh, where we have the real time, uh, uh, systems are used to basically control the beam dynamics in the main booster ring.
And this linac RF optimization that's happening. And, uh, there are many other systems to make sure we get the maximum physics output.
So we can always use this techniques and adapt it to, uh, the muon collider and, uh, make sure that we get the optimal performance over here.
We should always keep in mind, uh, the muon collider is not like a traditional.
The accelerators and collider that we have is not like the traditional ones that we have so far.
Muons can only stay for so long. The beam can only stay for so long, uh, in these things before it should go for collisions.
And on top of all this, I try to ask what is the most critical component, uh, that we have for in the entire muon collider system?
And if you ask this question, uh, Steve Ballmer looking person will come and tell you it's magnets, like the most expensive part of the collider.
And the most important part of the collider at every single point is magnets, which are multi Tesla magnets.
You need a huge solenoid with 20 Tesla, and you have smaller solenoids which are going to like extremely high, uh, magnetic fields.
But if you have magnets and if you are ramping up current, what do they do?
They quench and they destroy your entire system when they quench is really bad.
So if you have a current, how do you protect your entire system is with quench protection.
And there is an ongoing effort that we have at Fermilab in general,
it's not muon collider specific, but in trying to find, uh, detect quenches before they happen.
So the idea is to flag any of the precursor events, uh,
to before any quench happens and make sure that the magnets are running at the maximum current and most optimal conditions that are possible.
So we are currently using something called a state space models to, uh,
do the quench protection and try to put it on FPGA to promote multiple sensors that you get out of the, uh, magnets that you have over here.
One of the developments that we want for superconducting magnets in, uh, for colliders specifically,
is to go to high temperature superconductors, where, uh, it's really hard to predict how quenches are going to happen.
So we want to use this multi-modal data stream. And, uh,
some of the machine learning techniques to flag these precursor events much
better and make sure we are running everything in optimal condition so far.
So I'd like to say that this once again, remind everybody, this is not the full list of ML opportunities or efforts that's happening in Muon Collider.
Uh, this is my personal take of, uh, what is impactful in the near future.
So take it with a grain of salt. And I also like to emphasize that Muon Collider is an exciting and a talented program.
But we should also to solve all the challenges. We should embrace some of the bold and unconventional strategies.
So to quote Yan, again, I would like to say that ML and approaches are best bet for making rapid and significant progress.
Uh, in basically detector on accelerator optimizations and experiment optimizations.
Thanks so much. Thank you.
I appreciate the questions. Um, I wanted to ask about a couple topic, but.
So slide 15 as an example, there's a lot of situations where I kind of said, you know, I have some sort of complex model, complex system,
and you want to have a I have control over it in order to kind of between the parameters just to pimp control or market crunch and things like that.
But at least from pretty much in all the dozens of papers I've seen in the control theory, the nonlinear MPC still outperforms I no matter what.
They are not even close at all. The nonlinear.
Could you please repeat the statement again if you don't mind? Oh nonlinear MPC yeah, it's more performance than I.
And the fundamental reason is just that when we talk about complex systems that are nonlinear, you want to have a predictable response.
But I sort of is trained by if you have something that you haven't trained for yet,
but for a nonlinear MPC or even just, um, more complicated control, I'll shine.
So what can we do here to convince engineers of the right approach or a better approach than something that's more tried and true?
Um, one, I cannot speak for the exact systems that have been deployed right now are being used by the, uh, the accelerator division.
At the moment, I'm not directly on them. Um, but at least for the quantum detection and other things, we're just trying to make sure, uh,
these things are as robust as possible to some of the spurious, uh, correlations and spurious noises that we have.
So we always have like a robust measurement and etc. so on, so forth.
And uh, yeah, one other thing that I want to make perfectly clear is, yeah, when I,
I try to use the word, I try to avoid using the word AI and stick to machine learning.
For me, curve fitting to transformers, everything is machine learning.
So any of the models that you've talked about is still in some sense like using machine learning in real time to get better performance.
Uh, thanks so much.
Um, so apart from, like the last bit, every problem you talked about in its current workflow is fundamentally, uh, not differentiable.
And yeah, you can say surrogate models all day, but when we're talking about, say, say for the nozzle optimization,
where we are already sitting down and trying to figure out between, uh,
and different physics lists of G4, what, you know, we have huge variations across these things.
Can you, can you say a little bit more about what exactly you want the today creating a surrogate model for that to look like?
Uh, yeah, I think I can say my $0.02 about it, but I'm hoping Kevin would talk more about the fluke aspects of the, uh, bib as well.
So one is, which I found encouraging and interesting is, uh, the current, uh, the current efforts for making this one a surrogate model.
That's one where you're doing an approximate approximation of how things, these things are going to behave.
Um, but you can also some of the differentiability on paper that you see right now, these days are all based on, uh, uh,
how if an electron hits a particular system or like a target, how is it going to shower and what are you going to get at the, uh, end of the day?
So I'm hoping that, uh, yeah,
surrogate models use these large swaths of data to make sure that you are robust and your have a full coverage over all the possible systems,
although that's always if you're hitting some of the boundary conditions, it's always, uh, you should ensure some of continuity that's present.
That's part of your training objective that you should do. It should be sensible when we're building these kind of models.
But one cool thing is this differentiability. And if you can, uh, interface it somehow in, uh, how the beam, uh,
the electrons that you're getting from the muon decays in the beam and everything, at least for that part.
Maybe we can use that too, if that's going to be the major part of it, and use some of the differentiable g on methods to optimize the model as well.
I don't know how blue sky or how feasible this is, but it's definitely a way forward.
Yeah. Next one.
One more question. Okay.
Um, this is sort of partially answered by the previous question, but, um, what I'm hearing is that it takes a very long time to do a big simulation.
What's the central reason for why it takes so long to do a big simulation simulation?
I'm not an expert. I don't know if anyone wants to take it for me. Okay.
Oh, okay. Because you have ten of the eight particles, the large number, you have large number of particles.
And if you want to train any surrogate model for your detector geometry, uh, for your detector,
then you have to have some large data set where you have many big simulations.
So what I've heard is that it takes about a month in order to do a single, like big simulation.
So how do you reconcile those two facts? Need a data set to train your surrogate model, but it also takes a long time to do the simulation.
So where can you compromise on something?
So I mean, one way that I'd like to think about this is this. Right. So your bib,
whatever is happening is you're drawing from some inherent profile or an inherent
distribution of the particles of how they interact with the detector and everything.
So you're drawing from an inherited distribution. After some point it just becomes a distro.
You just sample from the distribution.
And as long as you can model this distribution really well, given your detector geometries and lots of parameters and everything.
Uh, I don't see a problem even with the limited samples that we have right now,
you should be able to get a good performing generative model solution to, uh, train this pipeline.
You. Yeah. Uh, I don't know how many events that you have at the moment on hand, but,
yeah, I would let Kevin talk a bit more about it in this talk like that one.
Okay. I really wanted to throw it out. Okay.
Thank you again. Yeah. And, uh, next up is, uh.
Next up is Kevin, also from Fermilab, who will tell us about, uh.
Uh, computing resources that are available and not available and giving us challenges.
Okay. Thanks. So sometime also the one time in the talks and now unstoppable.
So in this talk, I'm going to try to focus mainly on computing in the stage we're in now, which is the design stage.
I think what we saw yesterday from uh, the report we prepared with Aiadmk for the European strategy, we also did a projection about the numbers.
You would need to actually operate this thing for ten years.
And, you know, based on the LHC and so forth. And it's fun to throw around those numbers.
The error bars on those are probably close 100%. So I'm going to focus more on what we need, you know, in the next 5 to 10 years.
Um, and ideally even on a shorter period than that.
Uh, but first I want to kind of summarize the things you've heard about in the past few talks and talk about what the challenges of those are,
which motivates what we have to do with the computing resources. Um, so first generation, uh, we have both, you know, muon, uh,
collisions and interactions and of course, the beam induced backgrounds that we've heard a lot about.
And we'll continue to hear a lot about, um, then this goes on to detector simulation,
where you have the particles interacting with both the passive and active detector elements.
And this gives you the simulated hits. You have overlay where you add in the beam induced background hits to the muon interaction events.
You finally have digitization, uh, where you simulate the electronics response in each said detector.
Uh, and the way this is currently set up, uh, in our view, on Collider simulation train,
this gives you all the way up to the reconstructed hits, although you could introduce more granularity in these steps.
And then finally, reconstruction at a higher level gives you objects like tracks, vertices, jets, and so forth that we've heard about.
So what is the kind of rough computational intensity of each step, which kind of tells us how much it's going to use in terms of resources.
Uh, so generation is inexpensive at leading order, but of course, if you have some end to the MLA, it could be much more expensive.
And that's where we're starting to go for the LHC and for the kind of precision we want to do with the Beyond Collider,
we're certainly going to want to generate things at these levels.
Um, and there are people actually at this conference, uh, who are working on the software.
We need to do that. Um, so we keep it should keep an eye on things like negative weight reduction,
which is important in higher orders and GPU based generators, which are starting to be developed.
On the detector simulation side, we know that Folsom is intensive and fast and light bulbs is cheap.
But of course you have to get the information to put into that fashion somehow.
Um, so keep an eye on GPU based simulation and generative model, which I will talk about more toward the end.
On the overlay side. This is potentially the most expensive step.
You know, especially if you consider the bib simulation part of this.
We've heard a lot about that, and I'll get into how these things relate to each other.
Um so look at pre mixing which is our solution for overlay at the LHC which has its pros and cons.
And then also here at Generative Machine Learning. Uh, digitization has a linear scaling with the number of hits.
So, you know, it's not such a big deal. Um, but you may be able to run this on GPU because it's also typically a massively parallel operation.
We haven't been doing this at the LHC, just generally due to lack of investment in this area,
but it may be something to consider for the muon collider and reconstruction.
You get, you know, quadratic or at least super linear scaling with the number of hits when you're approaching this classically.
Um, so keep an eye on what you heard about already, which is smart reduction.
Uh, and linear time. MLB is clustering.
So profiling the stuff that we're doing right now, uh, which is one of the exercises we did recently, uh, for the European strategy update.
Um, so the VIP simulation, uh, and this is the detector simulation part.
The fluker part is even worse, but I'm not getting into that.
Uh, just in general, before it takes up to 24 hours per event, because you have ten of the particles and they all have to interact with something.
Uh, then when you do the overlay, even that takes five minutes per event before you do the digitization.
So this is just at the minute level, just going through and looping over all of them and adding them up takes five minutes.
Um, and then the tracking ideally, you know, we get down to five minutes per event, but depending on the lattice,
it can be even hours per event because you can have a lot of big leaking and things like that.
Um, so these are all scary numbers that we don't like, and they make it hard to have a really quick design loop.
Anytime you're talking about minutes, that's too slow. Hours and days is even worse.
Um, the memory usage of this because of the Vive is also quite large.
32GB is not something that is conventionally available on most consumer, uh, computers, especially the cheap ones that we buy in HPE.
Um, and then the disk usage of the bib is the 20GB per event.
So these are just numbers that are way beyond what we've dealt with at the LHC and other experiments so far.
Um, and so this is the current simulation. So this isn't 20 years in the future is right now.
Um, and so the vibe is driving most of this stuff, but we have to deal with that somehow.
Um, but first, what resources are we using to actually run these things?
And this is kind of a summary of where you can try to do these studies yourself.
Um, so there are major computing clusters in HPE, and most of them you can use for this work.
Alex Plus even has some documentation about setting up the on Collider software.
Um, Daisy I can provide some resources for this in Europe.
We heard about OSG, which has dedicated resources in the US for future colliders, which is great.
Uh, from my PC can be used for this as long as you don't make too much of a stink about it.
Just do it under the table a little bit.
Uh, and uh, then there are analysis facilities also, and a lot of the big universities and labs in the US and in Europe, uh,
which kind of provide different interfaces like Jupyter Lab and things like that, that you could also use to do some of this kind of computing.
Um, so using this for future colliders, mostly they're not dedicated resources,
but you have a fair share of whatever batch CPU's you can access on whatever system, and you can use it for this kind of stuff.
Um, the more difficult thing to find is disk space, because this is much more finite than CPU.
Um, there's summit in fan and there's summit OSG. I'm not really aware of much more, uh, that's available.
We should try to come up with a better picture of these resources and ideally try to increase them because as we saw, there is a pretty big need.
You know, with a single event takes 20GB. You need substantial disk resources.
Um, now, beyond the traditional resources, there's a growing usage of heterogeneous resources.
Uh, at the LHC experiments, uh, most major clusters therefore have some of these GPUs.
Um, often they're partitioned or they're shared between users.
We're still kind of learning how we manage these things at scale in our field.
Um, but the different workflows and the different steps that we have have different needs when it comes to these GPUs.
Um, so when you're just doing code development, you can kind of live with the shared GPU because you're just need to test things at a small scale.
Uh, so that's mostly fine. Um, for large scale processing like ML training or simulation or so forth, you really need dedicated GPUs.
You more or less have to get these from HPC centers, whether these are national lab leadership,
computing facilities or even university HPC, which there are a fair number of these days.
But they have to be kind of a dedicated resource, because if you're sharing, you're never going to get the compute you need.
Um, analysis. Like doing it by inference.
Uh, some of our analysis facilities let you do this via GPU based inference servers, via the trade in inference server, uh, technology.
Um, so this lets you do your analysis more quickly, which is good, but all the other steps still need some work.
Um, and then there are other alternative resources like ARM CPUs or FPGAs and so forth.
Uh, they're less widely available. They tend to be less in use in our workflow, as we should probably work on fixing that.
Um, some providers do have them, like the national research platform.
The US has a lot of basically everything, and it's a really great place to test out different, uh, different options.
Um, and you can also get these from the cloud like Amazon has EC2 instances with FPGAs.
Google lets you try things on their TPUs, which are, you know, basically a form of basic and so forth.
Um, so these resources do exist, but they're pretty scattered. They have nowhere to look.
So hopefully now you know a little bit more about where to look.
And then when you find something new, this on this list you can tell us of what happened to the list.
So moving on to another topic which is data management. Uh, the experiments that are currently operating have operations running.
And one of the things they use that for us to produce and manage data.
Uh, so we move the data, making sure that it's available, managing like the sites and what storage they pledged and so forth.
Uh, we keep track of the metadata, like the provenance, where the data came from, the versioning,
uh, associated business information, cross-sections of Monte Carlo processes and so forth.
Uh, and also discoverability, like, how do you actually find the data?
How do you look at all the data that's available? How do you access the data of using tokens or something else?
Um, so these are all things that the experiments do for themselves. We are not yet an experiment.
So this is a problem. We don't have operations funding to do this. Um, so we need to do something that's kind of community based and ground up.
It doesn't require that set up. We have to learn from the best practices and make them even more efficient.
Uh, so maybe this is possible because there is now a very common shared tool used by most experiments for data management, which is ruscio.
Um, so this is used by CMS and Atlas and other experiments. It's used now in astrophysics is being deployed in a lot of places.
Um, so there's a bigger group of people who know how to use it. They're sort of improving the interfaces, the documentation, all of that.
Um, so it's primarily used for data movement. It does have metadata facilities.
We should make better use of them because the ones that we currently have are all kind having a patchwork.
It'd be nice to have it all in one place. Um, and users can upload custom data sets, although some of the experiments don't currently allow that.
But we could do that in our, you know, ad hoc collaboration.
Um, so it would need some central management, but it could be mostly user driven.
All you have to do is say, hey, I made a data set. Here's where it is.
Here's the details of it. Put it in a database.
Other people can find it Ruscio can automatically schlep it over to their site if it's given the right information.
Uh, so this would really improve the current, uh, what was described as the Google Sheet setup that we have.
Um, so you, we move into the, uh, the modern approach to, to managing this at scale.
Um, you, um, collider data. Um.
It's complicated. Um, you have a lot of different formats, right?
You have Luca, you have geometries, you have root, you have all these things.
Um, and they also depend a lot on the latter. So this provenance aspect is really, really important.
And currently we're not tracking that. So do you only have to make sure we keep all these things in mind.
If you get a Pip sample. Doesn't make any sense for you to use it. That's a really important question that we currently don't answer very well.
Um, so moving on now to this PIB topic, which is what I'll finish off the talk with.
Um, so ten D particles, that makes it slow.
Uh, kind of necessarily. Uh, one way to speed it up is to run these processes on GPU.
Um, so you can exploit Sandy, which is single instruction, multiple data, by using just huge batches,
because this PIB is almost entirely protons and neutrons, and then the remainder is mostly electrons.
So you can just say, I'm going to take as many photons as I can handle and just do it all at once.
And that's the thing that GPUs are great at. And the way that you do this, as suggested by this giant roadmap, is through, uh,
software packages like celerity, which is a GPU based full simulation engine.
And they had a poster here yesterday, so I hope you saw it. Uh, but they have a long roadmap of adding different physics processes.
Um, they already have eon physics, which takes care of your protons and electrons.
Uh, we have to get, you know, some some effort going to add the neutrons, but they're definitely open to it.
We just need to make sure that, you know, that effort can converge. You can see they're adding a lot of other stuff that could be interesting there.
Even adding muon catalyzed fusion, some synergies there.
Uh, but this is one way that you can run this much faster and exploit resources better.
The other way is to train a generative ML algorithm.
Uh, now, of course, you need to have a training data.
And so my hope for this is that the GPU simulation hopefully can provide sufficient events for the training.
So this is kind of a bootstrap. If you take the thing that's low on CPU make it a little faster on.
GPU train on that and then have something that's very fast on GPU.
So there's a multi-stage process, and we have to understand how flexible we can make each stage.
Um, the current efforts that we call ML for SIM, uh, mostly are conditioned on incident particle properties.
So you say you're in the detector and you have a high energy photon.
You want to simulate that? Um, that's fine. When you're talking about signal events like HT bar production or, you know, Z boson, something like that.
When there aren't that many particles you really care about. Uh, but the vibe is not that the behavior should be particles.
So rather than conditioning on particles, you really want to condition on the process, just generate the whole thing in one fell swoop.
Um, and then you can condition on other relevant quantities like the detector material and geometry etc.
And I think it was really an open topic of exploration.
How much can you condition this network on? How flexible can you make it?
Can we have a surrogate that will let you explore a really wide design space of nozzles and lattices and detectors behind them?
Um, with one model, you know, maybe you can fine tune the model that's becoming more popular nowadays.
And it's easier when you have a model that's trained on a really big foundation data set.
But of course, we don't have that. Um, so we have to understand how to balance these different needs.
But I think the advances that are happening in generative ML make it seem like this is at least possible.
It's at least worth trying, because if we did have a model that was flexible enough to give you different nozzles and different lattices,
um, even to, let's say, you know, 50% accuracy, you know,
maybe a little bit higher than that, you would be able to do a lot of design,
and then you could always make it more precise later, once you had a good idea of what space you want to live in.
Um, so we're going to have to bootstrap our way to this. It's going to take a lot of steps, but I think each step in itself seems feasible.
So now go into the overlay. Um, so we can learn from the LHC pylab overlay experience, and we can learn both what to do and what not to do.
Um, so the naive approach that we're currently doing is just slap everything together.
Uh, this is massively IO intensive. Uh, let alone how long it actually takes when you have as many heads as the DMV gives you.
Um, what we do now at the LHC is called pre mixing.
And so we kind of amortize this overlay. We do all the overlay once and then we compress the output.
And then we actually have a signal event. We just take the compressed output and overlay that.
Um so it does let you amortize this and it reduces your disk usage compared to the first one.
But you have to maintain this compression, which is not trivial.
Uh, because each hit has its own format, its own physics details.
You have to understand the non-linearities in your electronics. It's complicated.
Um, you still have IO issues because you end up with very large files.
You need them very highly available because you have to serve them across to all the sites.
Um, and when I say large files and large samples, uh,
we've currently hit the tens of petabytes and CMS for prefixing, uh, which it turns out is more disks than we have.
So this is been a problem we've encountered in the past couple of years.
Uh, and it's only going to get worse. And it's also scenario dependent, right?
As soon as you change the bed profile, everything you just did is out the window, and you have to redo it all from scratch.
This is also an operational issue.
Um, so if you can't do this with ML, then you can avoid both the speed and the input output issues because you just have this one model,
even if the model waits for a gigabyte. I mean, who cares? It's a gigabyte versus a petabyte.
You're still winning on that. Um, and you might be able to had this ML model generalize to multiple scenarios.
Um, so similarly you could have it uh. I'm giving myself two more minutes.
Similarly, you can have it, uh, you know, learn the fact that it's just trying to overlay Bibb or, you know, um, overlay pile up or whatever it is.
Uh, without having to model each particle and then condition on things.
Uh, so I think that these, these same kinds of generative approaches can apply at different stages.
Uh, and that makes it more interesting as something to try to pursue.
So I'll conclude now and just say that we have a lot of unique computing challenges.
And I think it's unique among the current experiments and the future ones that the Muon collider provides us with these, these challenges to solve.
Uh, we can learn from the LHC for some things. Uh, but other aspects are quite different.
Um, one thing I've seen as we're exploring is on the fly pile up.
Like we just do a fast simulation of the pile up right before we do the signal simulation.
Um, but for the vibe still doing within the particles.
So that's not going to scale up to that point.
So a lot of the things that have scaled from run one until now of the LHC will not scale up to the further,
uh, level that we need for the muon collider.
Um, the other point I'm going to make here again is that data management is very important for reproducibility of our studies.
Um, I think the particular challenge that we have with all of this is we want to tightly integrated design loop.
We want it to be fast, and we want to have good communication between the accelerator and the detector,
which is even more important here than it has been in the past. Uh, we don't have a lot of dedicated computing resources.
Um, and we don't have lot of people operating in managing them.
Um, so we have to be creative, and we have to try to grow over time and do things in the ground up way.
Uh, so I think if we can support each other within this community, then we can succeed at doing this.
Uh, and hopefully this puts us on a good path and we can take steps, you know, every month, every year, uh, toward having a better setup for this.
Thank you. Can. Uh, the boat is ready.
You can go first, Larry. Thanks. Uh, I've got a, uh.
Uh. Awesome. Thank you. Uh, an awesome, uh, awesome talk.
Um, uh, technical legal question.
Uh, so thinking about, for example, the, uh, the nozzle sim.
And, you know, by the time we want to, uh, kind of tighten this, uh, design loop and in some way,
uh, especially automate, uh, some of that process in our current workflow, that means using fluke.
Uh, yeah. And fluke is licensing is complicated.
Yes. Especially by the time we want to have it in a PSI.
That's right. You know, like this kind of thing. Uh, do you, have you thought about that at all?
And what that might look like? I generally try to avoid thinking about the licensing,
but I think that the approach that we can do right now that I believe would satisfy
the licensing issue is that you train the model and you do not publicize the model.
You provide the model as a service to people who are licensed to get out for the fluke.
Uh, so you say if you are a license user, then you can ask this model for an answer and it runs on a server at the lab.
Um, and it's just it's flukey as a service. It might be a fluke ML model instead of fluke of the software, but it's it's, uh, you know,
that way you you're not you're never in a situation where you could accidentally leak the information to someone.
It's not supposed to happen. So. So it takes an authorized user. So to launch a job that after that.
Yeah. You would have to do it that way currently as my understanding. But. Okay.
Yeah. Okay. Okay. So my question is mainly because I haven't actually done this yet with bib overlay.
Um, how does that interact with for instance,
giant for like volume parameters like limits or something like we were talking about yesterday shortly then the posters.
Yeah. So so I mean, you can certainly optimize the detector simulation of the bib, um, with GT for range cuts and uh, other algorithms like that.
It's still going to give you some number of hints. It's probably going to be fairly large if you start to overlay those hats onto your signal.
And then you have to like because those are going to enter your reconstruction.
Um, so you can reduce how long you're spending doing pointless things with the,
you know, GT for processing the baby particles, but then the overlay is the next thing.
And that's still I mean, you can reduce the number of SIM heads, but it's not going to be a massive reduction.
So the overlay is going to be. Sorry, it's just the volume.
So, for instance, if we have to put the bib overlay back onto it after the iteration,
it's kind of like the the limit set on that volume and G on it's not global.
So the parameters control widgets are created. Yeah. But once you have all the hits you have hits from your signal process and hits from your bib,
and you have to combine them before you can process and downstream. I see I got you.
Okay. Thank you. So Kevin, that sort of overall question here, the ten of the eight particles, each with their position and energy.
Do we really have that much information? Accuracy in any situation that we do.
I think it's it's just to worry about it doesn't seem to make too much sense.
Do we understand? Well, it should happen. And that's all over the detector.
I reduced very small amount, and I think that we are all worrying if we are simulating ten of the eight of them,
propagating through all these volumes of complicated detector and simulating it.
I don't think that there is information that in our simulations, which is accurate enough.
So I've heard this argument and I'm sympathetic to it, but I don't fully agree with it.
And the reason is that in this design stage where we're trying to write down all the parameters we need to build and, you know,
run this under realistic conditions, you know, the, the impact that some of these things can have on the nozzle design arm.
What level of smart reduction you want to target?
Uh, you know, those I think, you know, if you're really going to instrument your nozzle with radiation,
hard Asics that are going to be telling you what you need to read out on a local basis,
I want to be more precise than just saying, here's some energy, right.
So there are parts of this design process that really do require precision.
So that's where I was trying to get at. So for some studies it's important.
It's not important for a genetic study of, you know, what's our resolution for separating Z versus X and things like that.
And the physics plots we don't need it. So I think most people don't need all of this computation for those who are designing specific things,
maybe locally, if you're designing a chip, maybe a little bit broader, that's where we need it.
But I think that we should not take this and extend it to every user wanting to do full depth simulation, to do every damn study, but I agree.
I agree with that. Like, you know, I'm focusing here really on the core design, the really hard stuff.
I think when you want to do the physics studies, we should make that simple for people.
Yeah, yeah. In some sense you're making the strong case for the surrogate models and, you know, um, you know,
the design flow is such that you don't need extremely high levels of accuracy at the times where you're trying to differentiate interpolate.
The problem is extrapolate. Often that's dangerous. But, you know, these are these are many iterations.
And I actually agree with Nans. Um, I like that last quote that, you know,
one of the ways we can accelerate all this is really having fully differentiable models that can be used in between the four.
So you're not going to build you're not going to ask for millions of dollars to build sensors based on surrogate models,
like you would lose your scientific credibility, but you're going to you're going to bridge and you're going to,
uh, approach that and then do a final full simulation.
So I kind of agree, you're kind of making this the case for you don't need that level of detail.
And every little bit, um, and you go. I mean, I appreciate that that point of view I think that's, that's that sounds reasonable.
However counterpoint. Uh, uh, so so that's in some ways, uh, using Q JSP, Bert is a surrogate model for using Q,
JSP, Bert HP and we have found that there's a huge effect on, on what we see in our flow.
Um, so, so I do think there's value in having it be as microscopic as it seems to need to be for, for whatever simulation we might be talking.
Yeah. I also comment that in the beginning, in TMS, we see if someone just happens to sneeze the wrong way on the 3D model,
we get like a 10% incorrect resolution or have you. So.
So it is totally right. Oh sorry, I was going to follow up on this point and then I'll I'll throw this away.
Um, the one thing that hasn't been mentioned at all in the am ML part, which I think is really important,
is, um, uh, interpretability and uncertainty quantification in ML models.
And so one of the things that could be discovered is, you know, you said certain things matter at the microscopic level,
but if you have proper if you have ways of learning with the machines or telling you,
you can actually learn what, what matters the most and go and then zero in on that stuff.
So I think actually this would be a call or a comment that, you know, one of the things we can integrate into all of this is better.
There's a lot of great tools for interpretability and learning what the machines are telling us.
With these, even with the surrogate models, they're not only utility based for speeding things up,
but their means of a completely general, um, flexible way of learning what matters in simulation.
And I think with the proper tooling, we could use some of that to understand what matters most and therefore refine the simulations even.
Yeah, this is a very good point, Marc. And I think, uh, on the generative side, uncertainty quantification is super important there especially.
And there's also currently no good methods to do it. So this is a this is a blue sky kind of field.
Uh, coming up with some way to actually cover the uncertainty of a model in statistically accurate way.
So counter to, uh, Larry's counter, if we tried two different models and then widely varying,
like what you're pointing out, maybe the problem was we don't fully understand what the variability is in this thing,
and just going about doing it crudely is not necessarily needed everywhere,
but we do need to have ability to simulate for a particular nozzle configuration.
What are the the range of things that we can expect in terms of profiles of energy deposition,
both in terms of magnitude and also position in the detector?
And maybe we can have a surrogate model after that. With that, at the moment we do 10% of one bunch crossing and mix it.
I think that I don't think that's anywhere near accurate. And if you just happen to mix the wrong one of those things, you'll get wild variations.
I. Rather have a concentrated effort where we do a thousand bunch crossings over for a particular nozzle configuration.
You have some idea variations and then go and try to play with it.
Getting it made so that I don't have to choose whether or not it is okay.
I just want to add one tiny point on on the 10% of the spectrum, which is what we currently simulate in, uh, in flicker tickling.
In 5% the fine. Then we shift in Z, the becomes 10%, and then we rotate in five becomes one or multiple badge crossings.
The the the positive side of that is exactly what Kevin has tried to say multiple times here, which is many particles.
So what we are actually simply saying if we want the analogy of a delay, C is like when when we simulate one one event, we have several interactions.
So we simulate one interaction. Then we pre-mix many p collisions.
And so the important thing is that we simulate enough single ones that we can mix them in various various, uh, positions.
So similarly here the unit is the single muon decay that goes through his detector someplace and gets him to the detector.
And then we sample tens of thousands or tens of millions of doors.
So but that's the unit. So and so in some sense that's the positive side.
We are already sampling with this large simulation a large number of them.
And that's what gives us confidence that even if it is the equivalent of 10%,
it's fine enough to create that we can mix them up and get a realistic one or multiple bunch these.
So the next things effect that, um, people that we are working on is,
is that in the way that we mix these things, we should not really think about the event level anymore,
but should think at the muon level, keeping that as the correlation and change the way we are pre mixing those uh, between the spectrum.
So that's the next thing to do. And that I think is what is needed before we start training machine learning algorithm.
Because that preserves the correct correlations which now instead we dealt with the face meeting.
And so we actually create we dilute the existing correlations.
So the the correlation that the machine learning would uh, learn from a single event are actually not correct.
So it's I think the key point that you try to set in many times, I think is really right.
And I love the I think actually the parts you pointed out, which I think is, is really, really a good one is,
is sort of this mix in which we could even do fluke up to before heavy elements from the detector,
including before the nozzle,
then taking things like celebrities and so on to boost the heavy propagation up to the detector element sample there and then putting in that.
And I think that that is a really winning strategy. Yeah.
Thanks. So on this point about simulating on the basis of a muon in the beam decaying it, this a very good one.
And the nice thing that that facilitates is it facilitates the tight loop between the detector and the accelerator.
Because you can say what I want is I want the beam with these characteristics.
What is it going to do? If that's the question you can answer that you've achieved that tight loop.
So. Rather. Yeah, we're sort of in the general part of this, but, uh, we are in a discussion here.
Unfortunately, we're out of time, but so, uh, I think that at the end,
the background is coming out because of the tales of the showers that that the electronics produce.
Maybe there are other ways of characterizing that, uh, how much material,
how many radiation lens is this particular electron which came from beyond the gas going?
Maybe we can parametrize on the basis of the length, uh, that that electron shower will see.
And maybe that be another way you can just reuse the event.
Yeah. These are the kinds of things we've done, you know, G5 and other similar approaches at the LHC,
especially for the high ETA, which is where the baby also appears.
Uh, but it does require some knowledge of the geometry.
And so that's where we need to be a little more flexible. But if we can parametrize these things dynamically, then we can do things like that.
But then I think we basically just come back to the machine learning and solution. Yeah.
All right. So I think we're actually at our time. Yeah. We are at time. Um, anything else burning people want to bring up?
Um, otherwise I will say the last thing here, which is going to sound silly, but,
you know, um, quantum computing is a bit of a it hasn't been mentioned, of course.
It's sort of a little you just kind of sit on the side of your mouth for LHC because frankly,
it's more of a money grab than anything it's going to be useful for, for LHC.
Having said that, you know, it's not don't be embarrassed to to to explore algorithms, uh,
for, um, you know, things that are highly common to talk and very highly parallelizable and,
you know, map to classical quantum stuff because, you know, 20, 30 years, who knows what's going to happen here in Chicagoland.
There's an enormous effort in doing a utility scale quantum computer. So don't be embarrassed to make those studies, um, as you might be for the LHC.
Okay. Having said that, um, we're at the end of the time.
So let's thank all the speakers again and all the discussion.
