# Afternoon Plenary

Hello, everybody. Okay, welcome to the last session.
Before we get started, we want to announce the poster winners.
Um, so we have two honorable mentions. Um, Sisi Hanna from Princeton.
Dude. Did you leave? Did Courtney leave or is she upstairs?
I don't know. Okay, well, when she runs in, we can surprise her to.
Okay. And so then the second honorable mention is Caroline.
Recall from, um, university. Why don't you come on down?
So you missed it. Here you go.
Congratulations. Congratulations.
And then the best overall poster goes. Terrific. I also from the University of Tennessee.
Congratulations. Thank you so much. It's.
It's a yes. Let's say let's get a post a picture. And I cannot.
Oh. Of you. Let's.
It's game. Yeah, everybody.
And I'm sorry that my artistic skills cannot match.
But that's okay. You guys are. Okay.
Um, so let's let's get started with the actual content of the session.
Um, so. Andre. Sure. Okay, so again, welcome to the last session.
Uh, our first speaker is, uh, Mattel's Hotz, third from Harvard, going towards, uh, University of Iowa.
[INAUDIBLE] tell us about neutrino physics with muon colliders. Okay.
Thank you. Uh. Thank you. My co-convener is for really inviting me.
Very kind invitation. I feel like we heard the word neutrino a lot in this meeting, so hopefully I will do it justice.
Uh, to what we are thinking about. Um, a couple of caveats.
Uh, I'll only focus on sort of broad synergies between the trainers and meal colliders.
There are many well known facts. There's a huge literature,
and I'm not going to bother about referencing everything that's happened way back in the 90s and early 2000 is just because it's a huge literature,
but a lot has happened. So I do encourage people to go back into the rabbit hole of the references to check that out.
Check it out. I think Adrian compiled the very nice list of people that thought about this in the past as well.
I'll focus on recent studies and some new ideas.
Um, most of this talk is really questions, aspirations, and my own perspective on where we are with the synergies between these two fields.
I can only speak for me, of course. So, uh, let me start with the first synergy.
Oh, uh, that's that muons, fermion collider and neutrinos would be basically be produced by the same process, pion decay.
We are very fortunate that the strong interactions are that strong, and that they like to produce as many pions as they do,
and that the pion actually has a sufficiently short lifetime that it can produce lots of muons and lots of neutrinos for us.
So neutrino experiments, and in a sense, the collider is a way to turn the strong force into a free, uh,
weak force experiment in taking the strong force and converting that into a number of changes in muons.
Neutrinos are hard to detect, but not necessarily hard to produce.
The second kind of synergy that one can think about is that muons in the muon collider and anywhere else they do decay and they decay to neutrinos.
That's a very good thing. If you take muons from a mile collider or anything else and you store them, if you let that,
uh, muon beam stored for long enough, you accumulate a very well known and very precise beam.
We have a lot of ideas of what to do with that type of beam, and that usually goes under the name of neutrino factories.
Uh, you could also imagine the muon collider itself not trying to modify the design or anything like that.
You just simply build the collider thinking about the interaction point.
And if you do that, and let's say we forgot that muons decayed and only realized that again once the collider was built,
you can still do a lot of neutrino physics. The first place where you do that is in the forward direction, just like in the LHC.
You have things like phaser, phaser, new doing physics in the four direction.
But unlike the LHC, the forward direction is not necessarily special anymore.
You actually have neutrino emission everywhere throughout the machine.
So one can talk about forward facilities.
One can talk about tangential facilities, basically things you put on the same plane of the ring to collect those neutrinos.
And you could also think about what we were discussing yesterday. Call the neutrino slice.
The part of the neutrinos are crossing the main collider detector.
It turns out that there's a lot of physics you can leverage, uh, with these high energy neutrinos here.
And that's what I hope to tell you a little bit about, uh,
this type of third synergy between the two fields is sort of an energy frontier type of synergy.
And that is if you have a lepton collider. A lot of the questions that you can ask about what new particles are there, new forces and new symmetries,
they can have very intricate, uh, intimate relationships with the physics of neutrino mass and lepton flavor.
Those are things that neutrino physicists care a lot about.
Uh, and finally, at these high energy collisions, you have essentially virtual neutrino colliders.
You can take the neutrino PDF of the muon and probe things like neutrino, lepton neutrino, neutrino collisions and so on and so forth.
That's not something you could do anywhere else. So let's begin.
The very first point I want to make is that, uh, muon collider will require a new type of beam and a very powerful beam and a new type of target.
So out of this R&D in beam power and target tree, uh, you essentially have, uh, a free neutrino source,
a great example of what happens when you put a lot of beam power and a very advanced, state of the art target together is the SNS.
Uh, there, neutrino physics can thrive even in the basement.
And what that means is, if you put very relatively small detectors for neutrino standards in the basement of the Snare spallation source,
uh, you can still do a lot of neutrino physics despite the very small volume.
So great examples are coherent inelastic neutrino nuclear scattering.
That was first observed in 2017. So it was a first of this type of program with a very, very small detector, basically kilogram scale.
You could set limits on light particles and dark matter in this way.
Uh, the coherent experiment, which is this suite of detectors at SNS, actually set some of the leading bounds in some models for light dark matter.
And you can also measure things like neutrino charge current scattering at the MeV scale.
If you're doing that in argon, for example,
you can significantly enhance the program of doing for detector looking for supernova neutrinos and solar neutrinos.
So this sort of, uh, physics program happens basically by accident.
No one really designed, uh, the Neutrino Alley or the basement here for this experiment, but neutrino physics still thrives.
Now, imagine what could happen if you brought this type of state of the art beam,
power and target tree to a large lab, like, for example, Fermilab or CERN,
you're taking that type of facility to a place where you have more space,
more particle or neutrino physicists and more detectors, bigger detectors in particular.
So I'm just showing here a sort of global view of the the Fermilab campus.
And you can see here the three detectors of the short baseline program.
I don't know if any of this will still be there by the time I mean, Collider is running, but for sure,
we'll have still interest in neutrino physics, given that Dune will be operating, uh, for a very long time.
Uh, another point I want to say is you get neutrinos from pions K on the case, uh,
decays at rest, which is what the Spallation Source was doing, but also decays in flight.
So sort of unavoidably, you're going to get a very bright neutrino source.
Now was one thing I was thinking in the poster session yesterday. Typically neutrino experiments have proton beams.
They produce pions. And then you try to focus though those pions with magnets.
But the muon collider target is in a sense sort of putting those two things together.
You have this very strong field around the target, and I'm just wondering what that can do for you.
Maybe nothing. Uh, the next point I want to make is about neutrino factories.
This is a topic that belongs to the world of low energy or intermediate energy neutrinos.
Uh, typically it's used in the context of neutrino oscillations.
If you're trying to measure neutrino oscillation parameters and understand oscillation physics very well,
you have to be in a baseline that is basically given by the radius of the Earth at most,
uh, and therefore that dictates what is the largest energy you're allowed to have before you start suppressing the oscillation probability.
What that means is that basically the energy of the muons you're constraining to is basically this range over here.
And people talked a lot about this. There is, for example, the International Neutrino Factory design there.
Uh, there was a lot of work put into that. And at the time people were thinking about other things.
For example, theta one three was thought to be very, very small.
So a lot of the design choices were focused in actually trying to measure this.
Now fast forward to today. We know theta one three is not small.
So if we're focusing on CP violation instead the types of things you would do are different.
Now we know a few GeV and basically 1000km is good enough to do what we want to do with CP violation.
But where are even. Um, where are we with isolations right now?
Um, I could show you lots of parameters and how well we're measuring them,
but I think the bigger picture and sort of more conceptual one is more exciting.
Uh, we are seeing three neutrino oscillations for the very first time very soon.
So here's an example of a disappearance oscillation that the Juno experiment in China will be seeing.
You can see the large oscillation wiggles here. And then the smaller oscillation wiggles due to the second oscillation frequency on top of that for
the very first time will resolve that physics very well because that's a disappearance channel.
You don't get to see CP violation. You can convince yourself of that.
But if you want to see CP violation, you go to appearance channels and you need something significantly different.
And that's where Dune and HyperCard come in. So that's the next generation that will tell us how the three neutrino oscillation picture really
looks like in the presence of CP violation matter effects and multiple mixing angles coming together.
So this is a highly non-trivial test of the paradigm.
We have sort of different pieces here and there from all the past decades of oscillation studies.
But I think for the first time, we'll see everything together in the same place with, uh, unprecedented resolution.
So the sort of, uh, cartoon that I like to think about is currently we have sort of a skeleton on what the oscillation picture looks like.
And as good physicists, we're sort of go for the minimal scenario.
Okay. Standard model, like there are no new forces.
Everything should fit into that mold. But maybe nature has other ideas and maybe they're much cuter.
So we don't know. Uh, I don't want to speculate too much, but if you look at, for example,
cosmological constraints on the sum of neutrino masses, you can see some weird things going on.
Too early to tell if this is real or not, but the fact that there is some preference for negative neutrino masses,
which is completely unphysical, is interesting. Something I'm keeping an eye on.
If you look at Nova entity, okay, and there are joint fit, there is some sensitivity to CP violation.
And it turns out that they don't disagree but they don't agree either.
So statistically speaking there is some tension there, although it is definitely too early to tell.
So that's again USA Plus Japan programs combined and not necessarily telling you the same thing.
We may see a repeat of that in the future. We just don't know. And in turn, those have a way of surprising us.
Massless neutrinos definitely not mixing in small no theta one and three is definitely small, though that's still not.
And therefore we don't know what's going to happen. And without speculating too much, the point here is that it's too early to claim victory.
We don't know if it will be done with oscillation physics after the next generation.
And even if we are, should we stop doing oscillation physics forever?
Personally, my take here is that that's a no. Oscillations are sort of an Earth sized flavor interferometry.
That's just a very fancy way of saying they're very sensitive to very small effects that the neutrino may feel like,
for example, new forces and couplings of the channels with matter.
They would show up in things like oscillation, but would be very hard to detect anywhere else.
And there are many ideas of how to leverage this program to look for new, new physics.
So that's my message here. And I will say the next generation experiments will see.
I can boast about beam intensity. They can boast about detector size and detector granularity.
So liquid argon is essentially a microscope into the interaction byproducts of neutrinos.
But they cannot boast about the flux systematics.
We're sort of stuck at the level of 10%. And that's where muon beams really shine.
So if you want to lift that pillar of the oscillation, uh, neutrino program, you really have to address this issue.
It turns out this is not going to stop the union hierarchy from doing what they're going to do.
But if you want to go beyond that, you do have to address it.
So just to give you an idea of what the current status is. This is the budget of systematic uncertainties in the new beam.
Of course, this is back in 2016. Things have shifted a little bit, but not by much.
And this is the uncertainty on the neutrino interaction rate coming mostly from the flux at phaser new at the LHC.
These are all hadronic beams. The uncertainties are large there at the level of 10% or more in the case of phaser.
And that's where muon beams can do much better. And the level of percent level or better, depending on how well we can measure the current.
So we heard a little bit about this. I'm just going to flash it. Julia, in the parallel session told us about neutrino factories in the modern era.
So it turns out that if you take a neutrino factory in Fermilab, for instance, or at Brookhaven,
and you adjust the energies accordingly to hit the oscillation maximum at surface,
and you point this at the far detector, you can go beyond the current sensitivity of, uh, the future sensitivity of delta CP with Dune and hyper K.
But I will say the sort of plot that you're looking at here, which is if I fix Delta CP,
I take the uncertainty that I would expect in the Dune Plus hypercar era, and then I compare that with one in Neutrino Factory.
Could do. It's really sort of underselling the big physics picture of this nature in a factory.
There are way more parameters. You're testing way more channels than we can with pion beams.
So sort of hard to capture that with a single plot. And I think Julia would agree with me on that.
So there are many ideas of how to leverage neutrino factories.
There are some references here. You can also leverage it for new physics studies with oscillation, but I won't have time to talk about that.
Uh, you could also go to sort of smaller versions of neutrino factories, like low energy muon beams that are being stored.
We heard a little bit about that from Carrie this morning. So new storm is one such program.
And here I really have very strong flashbacks, because my very first PhD project was asking how well can new storm constraints tear on neutrinos?
That was ten years ago. We never published that because we thought it wasn't interesting enough.
The interesting nature in the factories was dying down, so who cares?
Okay, great. So now, uh, the proposal is a little bit evolving over time, but the idea would be if you store a 1 to 6 GeV muon,
you can do this type of physics for a near detector of oscillation experiments like
measuring cross-sections extremely well for the oscillation physics of tune and hyper decay.
It turns out you can sort of calibrate these systematics away, but with such dedicated measurements,
you can really get a better picture of what's happening in the interaction and even further boost the sensitivity of doing in hyper K.
I don't think this has been properly quantified, but that's an interesting idea to look at.
Uh, there are some references here for those that are interested. You would also like to couple this with a very precise detector, like for example,
a gaseous argon detector, like the kind that is considered for the near detector.
So if you had something like that, you can get even better. Um, uh, particle identification.
And because it's inside of a magnetic field, you also get charged discrimination, which for a neutrino factory type of beam would be very important.
Okay. We're also asking questions about what could you do with the lower energy part of the acceleration of the muon.
So if you go for the current sort of, uh, sketch of the muon collider, you have this free accelerator recirculated linear accelerator.
And we're certainly on a linear accelerator to the sort of dog bones geometries.
And Patty Fox and Petr Machado and the man they think of yunqi here.
And for this, this plot which shows basically the neutrino interaction rate, if you could capture every single neutrino emitted by these components.
So if you had a four pi detector around this and you can see different components,
give you a different flux, uh, and there's your shapes and the interaction right here.
Don't take the y axis too seriously, which you can see covers a huge span of energies.
So the type of any kind of physics that you can do can span multiple, uh, magnitudes.
Here. You can see pre accelerated, uh, muons can give you the energies of the hyper k energy range.
And the early one, for instance, can give you an internal energy range that looks like the different energy range.
So that's sort of something you get for free.
And that's one of my student, my very first student at the University of Iowa, who's maybe some of you met, uh, early this week.
Uh, we're currently working on taking all of these different designs of the accelerators for the muon collider,
starting at the very beginning and turning them into what is the neutrino flexi to get anywhere around the campus.
So he's very nicely put together, this simulation of these two components here.
And we're currently investigating this in collaboration with Patty and Pedro.
Okay.
Uh, you definitely have seen this plot before, so I'm just going to flash past it as the muon collider neutrino flux from the main muon collider.
So you can see that's a huge interaction rate. And it's not necessarily the highest energies we have seen when we have atmospheric neutrinos for that.
But they are probably the most collimated, most well understood and highest energy in the lab that we can produce.
Uh, in the future here. Uh, and if you have that we already discussed a little bit about this.
Now we'll cross your main detector. And neutrinos don't interact very often, but when they do, they really do interact.
Meaning if they are interacting, they produce very high energy particles.
So it's very hard to miss. So if this is happening in what we're calling the neutrino slide.
Some of your mule collider. What are some of the implications for the detector design and for neutrino physics?
So to tell you a little bit more about that, if we calculated this using the full lattice of the five collider version,
it's a little bit outdated, but it turns out it's not too bad.
It gives you a picture, uh, in the bending magnets section where the muons are being geared towards the main attraction point.
The muons are pointing essentially at the edge of the detector, and they're scanning outward,
inwards, uh, through this neutrino slice there you're going to get lots of interactions.
And we're basically dubbing that slice the original slice. And then those that come from the straight section here.
Our interaction interacting mainly in the nozzles and in the beam pipe, you can call it the neutrino halo.
There are very different types of components. The energy range is basically the same,
but the kinds of interaction rates that we're talking about are astronomical given current neutrino, uh, experiments statistics.
And here you can see Luke the undergraduate.
That really, uh, was amazing in this project, presenting this very idea in the very first US SMC, uh, collaboration meeting last year.
Uh, he's clearly very happy about those rates. It took me a while to believe him, uh, for those numbers, but he definitely proved me wrong.
So, uh, we calculated this. So just to get an idea, this is basically half an event per bunch crossing for a tentative email collider.
That's a lot. So we had a little bit of discussion yesterday.
I think there's a lot of work that needs to go into this, especially dedicated simulations with a proper detector design.
Uh, and I'm looking forward to discussions in the future instead of the the sort of neutrino slicer can go in the forward direction.
I think Zada will tell us a little bit more about it, but there are ideas of what to do there, including new physics that is coupled to neutrinos,
and I can only sort of show up in neutrino scattering, it turns out, gives you the leading sensitivity.
Uh, these types of constraints. That's what you could get with a new collider compared with doing here, for instance.
That's where statistics and the system can really help you.
And there are other ideas to, for example, constrain the left with the for detector.
I think we'll hear more about that from Asada. I'll also just flash.
What is the shape of this flux 50km away from the interaction point?
That's what it looks like. So most of the neutrinos are basically ten meters in radius.
Once you're 50km away, that's a very collimated beam.
So you don't need very large detectors. We also heard a little bit about ideas for tangential facilities.
So Adrian and Andrea had this idea of like a hockey puck style detector.
You put anywhere around the ring that can collect huge statistics of neutrinos
and can basically give you a very clean probe of neutrino electron scattering,
which is a very good probe of electroweak interactions.
So one of the conclusions was that you could even establish the running of theta week with a single channel using this type of detector.
So I think we'll also hear more about that in the summary session.
We also heard about that this morning. So I'm again just going to flash that.
That's not the idea of if maybe you don't go tangentially or forward. You go down, you point your beam somewhere else.
And there are these huge detectors like IceCube and P1 that will have, uh, and maybe those are designed for TV physics.
So maybe that's where we should be looking.
And there are very interesting things that you can do when they train those as they transverse the entire Earth.
So that's what the world could look like if you had a percent level measurement of neutrino nucleus cross-sections in, uh, a muon collider era.
You have lots of measurements down here. You have the muon collider projection there with a 1.5% measurement.
That's relatively conservative, if you ask me. And that looks way better than anything we have ever done.
But it's even better than that because all of those data points do not trust their normalization.
Now, these experiments were adjusting their measurements to each other.
So it's not really a fair comparison. That's more of a shape type of measurement.
The same thing with phaser. We talked about those large uncertainties coming from the hadronic type of beam.
So the comparison is perhaps a little unfair 1.5%.
Maybe we can do even better by measuring the currents. You can do dis precision physics, so try to for example, currently strange to see,
uh, quark production is something useful for current PDFs coming from neutrino data.
You could imagine this becomes a lot more exciting if you have the type of statistics that you would NMU and Collider.
I'm not going to talk too much about that, but there's a great talk by one here.
You can you can see the slides and there are other rare processes you can go through, for example, charm production in turn electron scattering,
resonant measurement, production, Triton scattering, all of these things that would be extremely hard to access a conventional accelerator facilities.
But just because of the large rate you can get access to here.
So now let me just finish off with two examples of energy from tier, uh, synergies.
So neutrino mass models, perhaps the most popular is a seesaw model.
And then there you get heavy neutral leptons. A couple of people have looked at the sensitivity of new colliders to those.
And if you ask questions about heavy neutral leptons above the TV scale, it is very hard to set limits if you're not in a meal collider.
So we have very good sensitivity at the lower masses with LHC, with other beam bump experiments.
But out here and, you know, Collider really is king. And if you look even into the properties of these channels, they violate lepton number.
And it turns out having a muon collider with mu plus, mu plus, and therefore a net lepton number in the beginning of the collision,
and would be a good thing to type of to constrain this type of of model.
Just because if you look at this diagram, it looks very similar to what a neutrino lesson will be.
The decay diagram would look like except with muons. So finally and then no PDFs.
Uh, there's not much work being done here.
I would point you to these two works, uh, of what you can do as far as neutrino physics goes with these, uh,
but I posed that as a question to the room neutrino, the left on neutrino vector boson scattering and the channel neutrino collisions.
So with that, I will leave it with my summary of the synergies and take any questions.
All right. Thank you. We have time for questions. Um, yeah. Matthew has a fantastic summary.
Uh. Very exciting. Yeah. Um, my question is, will there be sort of physics study book type of things that you plan to produce?
Not that I'm aware of. Why not? That's that's if I ask you to do it.
Really isn't. That something?
I was hoping to answer in half an hour. So we are hoping to do that by the end of the year.
I will talk more about it. I don't want to be great.
Also, if whether you have enough people working on it, that's another thing I want to know.
If not, we should figure out how to, uh. Excited?
Okay, great. Yeah.
Uh, so I could. I'm taking that by your tangential, uh,
neutrino production that you're conceiving that the the accelerator ring is that that the actual orbits are fairly flat because I knew that there was,
like, 15 or so years ago or so.
There was a lot of work going into lattices that would undulate, you know, the, the, the beams and kind of spread them out,
particularly in the lower Minton's Collider workshops, where, you know, the neutrino radiation was a concern.
Yeah, that is a great point. So for things that you're putting far away forward facilities, tangential facilities, uh,
that could be an issue because you're doing isn't essentially that I don't know what happened yet.
Oh did I. Oh, but I can just answer for things are pretty far away.
Yes, you have to take that into account. Uh, for things like, for example, the neutrino slice that I discussed.
This is so close to the beam that the undulation of the beam will make this bigger, but it wouldn't necessarily miss the detector altogether.
But that's a great point. I think essentially, my personal view from working on this, there was not enough consensus,
consensus on what that undulation looks like such that we could put it in our simulations, but we should definitely look into it.
Quick comment. I think you mischaracterized the intent of the International Neutrino Factory study.
It was optimized to study CP violation under the assumption that data one three might be very small, right?
Yes, I, I agree with that. Sorry if I said otherwise, but the context, uh, with theta one three was very different.
Yeah. Any more questions or comments?
And one more here. So, um, discussing the forward facility, um, neutrino oscillation frequencies strongly depend on the energy of the neutrino.
And so does that give constraints that we can state already as to what kind of energy stability we're looking for in terms of,
um, collisions at the muon collider that we can state already.
Uh, you mean using muon collider neutrinos to do oscillation?
Yeah. So the energies that you would constrain to would be few GeV to maybe tens of GeV.
If you have anything above that, the oscillation frequency such that the oscillation would happen outside of the Earth essentially.
Yeah. So that's the constraint. If you go much beyond GeV scale, you just don't have any hope of seeing that within the Earth basically.
Okay. So that's the range that you're looking for right? Yeah. Thanks. Uh, we should thank my tables again.
Thank you. Okay.
So now we're going to hear three talks, uh, summarizing the different parallel sessions that we had.
The first speakers have Ben Rosser from Chicago telling us about the experimental parallel sessions.
Okay. Thanks. Um, yeah. So I will try and give a quick summary of the experimental parallels.
Um, so, you know, we had 13 talks and kind of two scheduled discussions.
Um, over the last two days. Uh, you can see here all of the talks.
Um, I obviously can't summarize all of them in ten minutes, and I'm not really going to try.
Um, so I will just kind of give you a few highlights of things from each of the sessions that I thought were particularly interesting.
Talk about the discussions. Um, you can find all of the recordings on Indico.
Uh, for all the talks. So if you want to see something that I didn't cover, I'm sorry, but, you know, please go look at the recording.
Um, you also note that I had a talk in the last session, so this is a bit, uh, hastily prepared.
I'm sorry for that. Um, I think one thing I want to emphasize, though, about everything is that, you know,
we're really starting to do new studies and kind of put together new results.
Um, over the past year, uh, things, you know, updated simulation studies,
updated performance studies, looking at kind of new technologies of detectors.
So it was really great to see this progress. Um, so from the first parallel session.
Yeah, I mean, I think on exactly that theme, you know,
there were several talks kind of really focusing on moving to more realistic modeling of our detector, um, in places where it was really necessary.
Um, so here, you know, I have, you know, from JP talks about, uh,
the importance of kind of modeling the low energy neutrino neutrons in the bib, their nuclear interactions with the detector design.
Um, we're kind of doing a less precise version of that before.
And if you switch to just kind of more precise, uh, physics list in John for this,
it makes a huge difference in what you see in terms of how the beam induced background unfolds in the detector.
Uh, so really important. Um, and yeah, I also talked about, you know, we kind of have a very simplest,
simple digitizer, um, as part of the reconstruction chain for the tracker.
And when you try and assess, you know, how much beam induced background are you going to see in the tracker?
If you use a realistic digitizer, it makes a big difference.
Um, you end up with, you know, quite a bit lower levels of bib, um, compared to what you would otherwise see.
So these are the types of studies that I think we're now increasingly doing now that we have like a baseline detector design in place.
Um, kind of trying to, to make things better. And there were also nice talks, which I didn't put here.
I'm sorry. Um, from Greg, uh, and Rose and kind of other reconstruction improvements looking at calorimeter clustering,
doing more with our particle flow algorithms and things like that.
Um, so you this actually just kind of mention this, but I want to mention it again.
Um, which is this, uh, you know, these beam induced neutrinos, um, which he called bins yesterday.
Um, uh, where, you know, you have an appreciable rate of neutrino showers, um, coming off the decaying muons in the detector itself.
Um, and I think this is something, at least from the detector side, we really haven't thought much about.
And, you know, the rates are very high. And you can kind of to get a sense for the scale of that.
Um, Larry and Tova made this plot of looking at, you know,
what are the rates of all of the processes we might care about at a muon collider being produced, kind of at the hard process.
Um, you know, compared to the overall decay rate.
You can see that in many cases, the processes we're interested in are, you know, several orders of magnitude lower than the overall collision rate.
And if you have, you know, one of these beam induced neutrinos in your detector every two bunches,
most of the events we see are actually going to be neutrinos, potentially electromagnetically showering as they pass through the detector.
So that's, I think, something we haven't thought much about up until now.
We just started discussing it yesterday, like to continue discussing it as we go forward.
Um, I think it's both a challenge for us, but also an opportunity to to really detect these things.
Okay. Um, turning to the instrumentation. There's lots of really nice stuff presented here.
Um, going to talk from grace on calorimetry. Uh, several talks on timing detectors.
I think the message of all of the timing talks, you know, these timing detectors is,
is the timing detectors, um, are really something critical for the muon collider.
But, you know, if you look at what is already kind of being achieved with L guides for the LHC, we get a nice preview of this.
Um, as well as many other detectors being built. Um, we're kind of not that far away from what is already possible.
Um, so we need these detectors, but it's not crazy to think that we will have them.
Um, there are also issues, you know, involved in keeping clocks synchronized across the front end of those detectors.
Very precisely. And there are some really nice studies presented and kind of recent work, uh, in that direction.
Um, so I encourage people to go look at these instrumentation talks. I'm definitely not.
Doing them justice right now.
Um, but one thing I want to point out was this performance study of look, beginning to look at a design of a far forward muon detector.
Um, I think we know that being able to somehow tag the forward muons, uh, that get produced,
especially when you have vector boson fusion or vector boson scattering is very important.
Um, you might want them for precise luminosity measurements, but you definitely want to be able to distinguish,
you know, when you have a forward muon, um, you know, from w fusion versus z fusion.
And there are different things people are thinking about for ways to do this.
This was a nice study of, you know,
can you put some instrument down the beam line and actually reconstruct them and starting to look at what is possible.
So it's also good progress on this. Um, and then finally, you know, we just had the computing session.
Um, and I think the theme of the computing session is really when you start looking
at running full reconstruction and full simulation and full reconstruction,
even just today, you know, to do studies with beam induced background,
it's really very expensive because a single bunch crossing has ten to the eight particles.
Um, and so kind of at every stage of the reconstruction step, there's significant bottlenecks.
You have to first produce those events.
And Flicka, um, which even just as we heard the other day, you know, producing a 10th of a bunch crossing takes a month.
Um, then you have to simulate them, which is very expensive if you do it full simulation and then,
you know, even running reconstruction can be very expensive, especially because many of our algorithms,
uh, as Gregory talked about the other day, you know, we're sort of came from a cleaner E plus C minus environment,
and they make sort of simple assumptions that, that require updating.
So I think there were very nice talks on this.
Um, something we were just talking about, you know, an hour ago was, you know, how and where can we use machine learning to optimize things?
Um, we should really should start exploring kind of generative ML approaches to Bib simulation.
And in fact, in many cases, you know, if we can produce, you know,
good fast simulation infrastructure that will be kind of good enough for studies, but we still want to be able to run full simulation.
Um, you know, for really, you know, optimizing the detector design, ideally, you know,
without something like this happening because of how intense all of this computing is.
Um, yeah. So I think that's it for me. Happy to take questions, though I may refer them to.
So we can take one burning question. All right.
We can move on to the next presentation. Thank you. I'll just.
All right. So the next speaker will be Steve from Fermilab telling us about the accelerator side of things.
So really, I'm supposed to be dickish. But he had he had to leave.
So he's he said, hey, we do this for me. So it's going to if I pause for a while, it's just kind of I'm trying to figure out what the slide is.
Uh, now let me just start up. Pardon.
Do I? Yeah. Well, you saw the picture with me and the students. Yeah.
He fit in much better than I did. Um, so let me just say one thing I've learned from this meeting is that, um,
we should not underestimate the capabilities and the potential of the universities to contribute to this endeavor,
because right now, they're doing a heck of a lot of work, and that's going to carry us through until,
you know, we can the labs can join in some, uh, meaningful fashion, which we're trying to do.
And I'll, you know, you'll see some of that in these slides, I think. Okay.
So these are the sessions.
Um, we didn't have a lot of sessions, but, um, we did cover just about every important aspect of the muon collider at some level.
And, uh, that was it was very I think it was just at the right level for people to get for those that needed an introduction, to have an introduction.
And. Okay, so, um, uh, Oak Ridge presentation showed how they could contribute to, um, short pulse,
uh, beams, uh, using, uh, phase space rotation and with the SNS, which is great.
Um, I think that's, that's a good thing to do. It's a very important aspect of, of the muon collider.
So they've looked at, uh, they can do hardware, look at hardware limits, uh, explore modifications for bench compression.
And they proposed some experiments. And I look forward to results from that.
And then, um, Kyle talked about, um, the RCS options.
Uh, this this is looking more and more like a pretty challenging thing to do.
Um, he did sort of, uh, you know, proposed to exceed the site boundaries of Fermilab, and we don't have to tell anybody,
but, you know, uh, maybe, but, you know, it's a great way, you know, look at what we can do.
And then if we want to get inside that, what do we have to do in terms of the of the magnets for the ring?
And you know, that that brings up a lot of challenges, things to work on.
But I think that that was very enlightening. Um.
Okay. And then, um. This was a nice talk here.
Uh, this is the, uh, charge agnostic, uh, cooling channel.
Now, this is not a this is, uh, a map idea.
And somebody asked me Sunday night. So how do you guys decide what technology to pick?
And I waffled. Totally waffled that question. I don't know the answer right now.
Think it's like how much work this group puts on in that group.
And, you know, somehow things rise to the top.
But I think this warrants, uh, another strong look.
You know, let's look at the trade offs in terms of of the required technology, like for the magnets.
Uh, we heard a lot about, uh, what magnet?
Uh, actual fields are required for the cooling channel, but I'm telling you, the, uh, peak field on the coil is what counts.
And that could be much, much more than the actual field.
So we have to be really careful about what we're talking about, because these magnets are very close together and have opposite polarities,
and there's huge forces and high fields and so on that we have to worry about.
So that's something that we need to keep in mind. But I think this, this deserves, uh, a very careful and, uh, strong look.
And then, um, this is from, um, Imke Luke Batra, uh,
has done these guys have done a lot of work on the magnets and looking at the, uh, limits on the technology.
So both now we have 310 and Remco, that's our strain.
Sensitive. So you have to be careful about that.
So the bigger the magnets get, the higher the strain our is and the higher the fields, and so on, so forth.
So he's to see this this thing. Uh.
Anyway. Okay. You can see the line there. So this, uh, yellow dotted line on the far right there, that's the limit on protection for another three,
ten magnets, you know, can you protect them when they quench. And then the red line is the margin limit.
So every magnet and accelerator has some operating margin.
And right now, um, the quadruples we're making for the LHC upgrade operate at 75% of their short sample limit,
the conductor limit, which is not that great. So the CERN magnets were intended to be 8.33 Tesla, their eight Tesla, because if they need margin,
the Tevatron was not the Tevatron because they never quite reached the design field.
So you give up a lot of field that way. You give up a lot of money with this margin.
And that's something that, uh, the US magnet program is working on and has made some progress on.
And then so that that'll help. Um, so, Remco, you look at this yellow line is left, it's out in the low field region.
And this is uh for what they call non insulation windings.
So these these are much easier to protect because when there's a quench current
can go all over the place and warm the magnet up and protect the magnet.
So if you want to move to the right and use a potential that's only limited by margin and stress,
you need to figure out new ways to protect the magnets. And then, uh, again, uh, back to cavities.
Um, that was there was a lot done in mapping a musical experiment.
Uh, looking at breakdown in, uh, magnetic fields, which is super important for the cooling channel.
And, you know, cold copper is, uh, slack has shown more recently.
Um, helps a lot, right, with reducing breakdown.
And also, uh, studies on the post length reduction can improve the breakdown resilience, um, of these cavities.
There's a lot of work going on there. And then, uh, so you recognize that, you know, we need a lot of muons.
So he said, where do muons come from? Pions. All right.
So let's start with getting as many pions as we can. And, uh, you know, we'll lose them later down the line.
But, uh, so he's looking at different design concepts for pion collection and, um, generating the muon beams.
And of course, targets figure into that, uh, quite a bit. And then, um, slack is working on, uh, RF testing and magnetic fields.
These guys have some, uh, LDA money they're using for this, and they have, uh, I have a magnet, too.
They have, uh, they purchased, uh, five Tesla, and they're putting, uh, cavities inside the magnet to test that at the nail CTA.
And I think that's that's a really nice thing to be doing. And that may be, you know, not quite.
Last but not least, uh, Ditka's talked about, uh, citing the muon Collider or the demonstrator, at least at Fermilab.
And there's various different possibilities there that we have to look at,
which has to be integrated into, you know, whatever happens in the future at Fermilab.
So we don't have to redo anything.
And then there was a at the mention, there was a great discussion at the end of this whole thing about, uh, you know, what to do in the meantime,
how not to spend all your time building a demonstrator and lose momentum and spend a lot of money and not get the muon collider.
So what can you do in the meantime?
So, you know, the neutrino people are talking about neutrino experiments and so on using maybe the demonstrator or beam lines there.
And I think that's that's something that warrants a lot of, uh, a lot of discussion, uh, in the future.
And that's it. Again, we can take one burning question or comment.
Okay. So we thank Steve again. Thank you. All right.
And I think our last summaries from Azaria Tabrizi from Pittsburgh on, uh, theory and neutrinos.
Uh, you separated neutrinos from theory.
Does it mean you don't know? Tuners are theory and neutrinos.
Okay. Thank you. So, uh, I'm sorry that I'm in between you and the end of the conference, so I will try to be as quick as possible.
Uh, we had three plenary talks on theory and of the order of 13, uh, parallel talks, plus a couple of posters.
So instead of just flashing, uh, a screenshots of, uh, indico,
I decided to make a road map to see, especially for parallel talks, uh, using just the titles.
What are we in the theory community thinking mostly about?
And I am not really biased to think that what we are thinking about is, um, one collider, not, you know, physics program.
Not biased at all. So this is exactly the message that I think we can see from at least the two three talks here.
We heard from Yan told that we need, uh, one collider in order to answer a lot of questions on Beyond the Standard Model.
And in order to do that, we either look for physics through direct searches or by doing precision measurements.
And if I want to say in one sense, one sentence, what is the take home message of all the theory talks that I stop laws.
We can do this either using effective filtering or direct searchers.
We can see that more collider come from many different physics proposals by at least two orders of magnitude.
Uh, we saw that, for example, Corey mentioned this morning that by using a moon beam, depending on,
uh, high energy momentum or low energy moonbeam, and depending on what type of physics uh,
we look at, uh, we can improve, uh,
something of the order of two orders of magnitude in the coupling versus the mass of different new physics searches.
We also heard, uh, from, uh, Rodolfo that, uh,
one of the things that is important to consider Atom Collider is the pdf of leptons, especially ones, uh, among neutrinos.
Um, one of the capabilities of uh, one collider is, uh, measuring these PDFs.
And this beliefs are important to do other beyond the Standard Model searches.
So we heard from, uh, Puyat that sorry, taking the PDFs into account or not,
in order to do, for example, uh, dark matter for, for searches, uh, diminishes,
uh, the sensitivity completely, which again indicates that how important it is that on the Turi side,
we understand how to do these as carefully as possible.
Uh, we also heard from some that, again, if we do a lot of BSM searches, uh, indirectly using effective filter already,
depending on what type of operators we look at, uh, what one collider can give us.
Which is dotted lines on what, uh, existing law energy constraints give us, which are, uh, the dark green or blue regions.
We see that especially for, for lepton operators. Uh, the root of collider is from tens of TV to hundreds of TV.
So again, uh, that will be, with no doubt, a lot of improvement.
Also, uh, Kevin showed us that we can also search for light, accidental light particles at a long collider.
And again, the same message, depending on what channel we look at. Uh, what we see is for the mass or, uh, coupling versus the mass of, uh, light.
Actually, unlike particles, we have a sensitivity, an improvement of almost two orders of magnitude.
How about neutrino physics? I'm not biased at all.
And, uh, there is a reason that a lot of the things I'm going to show you have been repeating throughout the conference,
because these are, I believe, some of the most interesting questions that we can answer.
I that one Collider, uh, we are producing a lot of neutrinos.
So we are thinking about many possible ways to detect is not doing us.
And as my toes explained, one of those ways are using the not in my slides or not in a halo, using a part of the main detector to detect the for you.
So to know and you see the unprecedented number of nothing else that is expected to be observed.
We also heard about the cool idea of kaleidoscopes that instead of putting using the main detector or putting at the door,
we can redirect the the, the beam towards, uh, one of the existing experiments.
And in this way, again we can use, uh, for example, IceCube to look for materials coming from in one collider.
Uh, if uh, assuming one collider is at Fermilab, uh, then doing beyond the Standard Model search is likely looking for a signal to noise.
That message is, again, the same. Uh, there would be an improvement of a few orders of magnitude for the, um,
massive square difference versus the, uh, the mixing angle parameter space.
Uh, we also heard of Neutrino Factory from, uh, might also start as well as, uh, from Yulia.
One of the things that on the tourist site we are still thinking about, and we hope that that conversation, um,
becomes a bit at some point we converge and we decide what we want to do is if we can
have a notion of factory as one of the staging parts of a high energy one colliders,
because in order to do the kind of, uh, physics that we want to do here,
we need GV or at most tens of DV of not enough rooms in order to be able to see oscillation.
Um, we want to do this.
We need to do this because at best, what hypercar, um, can do is, uh, probing some of the oscillation parameters that have not been measured before.
They cannot do precision measurement in alternate physics.
Uh, that is what a nominal factory can. So between not three, not people.
Um, Collider people, this is something that we should discuss.
Uh, more seriously, um, more carefully that if we can have an original factory, uh, in our way,
to get to a high energy manipulator, there are other ways of, uh, detecting not only at a high energy collider.
One of them is using the, uh, going, as my toes put it tangentially, Adrian talked about this.
It's the work that they do on on on the have done, uh, what they have done is using electron scattering to measure the mixing angle.
Especially they saw that, uh, they can even probe the running of the mixing angles here.
We can also put a forward detector here. Uh, this is with the assumption that it is of the order of 500m, uh, from the interaction point.
We can make different assumptions of a small ten kilogram detector or a larger quantum detector.
Uh, the bottom line is we can put either detector in a forward position, or we can use the tangential option.
There are many important questions that we can answer.
And we know what many of these questions are. We just haven't had time to try to identify what are the most interesting ones.
So I hope is just repeating, uh, a slide here that before we die,
because I will also probably be that by this time we can identify the important, uh, questions that we can answer.
And it's probably on us that you are. To identify a lot of these questions.
So under no time on site. We haven't gathered the information yet.
So to take care of that. The plan is, uh, to have a workshop in two and a half months from now.
Uh, we are organizing this in workshop, uh, with some of the people here, um, uh, together with Virginia Tech and Pittsburgh.
And the goal here is we identify the important not, you know, questions that we can answer at a collider.
We gather, uh, the efforts that different groups have made, um, designed, you know, you know, detectors.
And one of the outputs is supposed to be the booklet that you are asking about.
We are hoping to have a white paper out of this,
so that the things that different groups have thought about or are thinking about would be in, in one place.
Before we can decide what are the real interesting things that, uh, one Collider can do for us.
So that's all from. Again, we have time for one burning question or comment.
Thank you very much. The, uh. Didn't, you know the other side of Earth?
Is Ice Cube. Does that mean you have to build a new.
I want any extra hearing downwards. Yes.
That's. So. I forgot to say, when you see someone else's torch repeats at least three times in other people's parks in a day.
It means it's a very cool idea. So, uh, where are the speakers?
Uh, yeah. So for Ice Cube, it's.
You mean you can't orient the accelerator to make that happen?
But you could think about, like, a beam dump scenario where you point the muon beam through the Earth for P1, you could maybe orient the accelerator.
I mean, how do you think it's like it's already part, so maybe.
It would be hard, right? It's hard to build a muon collider. So if if it's worth it, if it's interesting.
Also it's a pun like collide a scope kaleidoscope.
It wasn't. Okay. Okay.
We should think so. I and all the other summary speakers again. So I am told that because Yankee asked the last question, she gets to speak now.
What am I saying? I don't know who you are.
What do you want? You can use that microphone. What do you want me to say?
You can say whatever I have to say. Go to France.
Oh, my. I don't have any plan. I mean, I came here to learn.
First of all, thank you very much. Uh, I joined attended the Sunday evening, uh, Steve's talk.
And so all the students are that I was, uh, just kind of kind of.
They are the future, and they're just excite me so much.
And I cannot thank you enough for all the organizers, uh, making this, uh, for school for me on Collider Accelerator.
And so second year, uh, the muon collider community, this is fantastic to see as many of you.
Um, maybe I was just to say a few things that what I'm doing, in addition to what you are doing so that you see that,
uh, you know, I, I'm thinking a lot about, uh, long term future.
Uh, I found love in in us and for for the whole, uh, word of the particle physics community.
Um, one thing I actually, I asked our accelerator team at Fermilab that I want to have, uh, neon collider designed by I.
I'm serious. I it's not that they will trust everything, but, uh, what I is good at is going through all the documents and,
and based on that, they can think about the end to end.
Uh, the, uh, um, we are much better in terms of, you know, reading all the documents.
So that will be our initial step to and then we can look at whether makes any sense.
But I think there's a workshop we are planning sometime this fall.
So, uh, would be good if you can join. I think it's a lot of fun to see what what I think.
So we'll plan, uh, we'll have a workshop. Uh, and, uh, uh, I think that will be super exciting.
It does. I like to see what it. I think we should build.
Um. And then we can correct, uh, what is if there are anything, uh, not nonsense, etc.
Another thing I'm doing is I have, uh, um, the visit of many national laboratories in U.S.
So there are eight national laboratories who have so-called accelerator user facilities.
So maybe some of you, especially if you have students you may not know.
Uh, so maybe I'll give you some background that there are 17 national labs in US supported by Department of Energy.
So there are ten so-called, uh, labs are primarily focusing on basic science or science in general.
So found there is one of that, uh, Argonne Berkeley like, uh, Brookhaven J lab, Oak Ridge Ames, uh, didn't miss anything.
So ten and then there are the, uh, so-called national security, uh, sort of lab and NSA lab.
There are three. So out of the there are the 17 science labs and, and national security lab, there are total 13.
So, uh, from ten nation, the science labs, there are seven of them have a users facilities, X-ray user facility.
And net the, uh, at this, uh, weapons level national security lab, there's one has the, uh, accelerator, uh, users of facility.
So there are also the eight including film live.
So I used all seven of them. The reason is that, of course, I want to, uh,
have a more dialogs and collaborations because we are all sharing a lot of accelerator knowledge and current and future collaborations.
I want to strengthen, uh, our collaborations and and connections, but also, uh, each, uh, the lab.
I asked so whether they will join um, accelerator R&D because you saw that Ray or Chris is not, uh, this in terms of, uh, they do a particle physics,
uh, the, uh, research about it not known as a really particle physics lab yet they are their SNS, uh, has been really, uh, important.
Can be very critical. Uh, the the, um, the part of, uh, neon collider challenges.
So, uh, and, uh, so the bottom line, all seven of them are interested in, um, and of course,
and so I'm forming a, uh, so-called, uh, National Lab accelerator, uh, the study group for Muon Collider.
So I have spoken to, uh, on Sunday, your leadership here and just, uh, because I have to write charge to this study group.
Uh, and I think we made it, uh, the charge.
So, um, all eight national labs will, uh, you know, they are sensitive, one national lab per person, etc.
So 80 QA people, um, the charge is, uh, going through, of course, of the all the current studies, international community has done a lot of study.
So you have to use that based on that. And, and uh, they, they are going to look at a very, um, diff with the fresh.
Tickle eyes. What the. What are the major accelerator challenges for muon collider?
So that's a step one. And then also, uh, the another charge there is um,
what kind of capabilities all these eight national labs have for concerning accelerator exposure challenges.
So identify, uh, the capabilities of a national labs.
Um, so when we figure out what they are, as I'm sure that will, will bring, uh, university,
especially as students and early careers are joining in into the, um, study together.
National labs have so called Eldred. So let the lab director directional directed R&D.
Uh, so that is a we pick all the texts when when federal government gives you program budget and we tax some percent,
and then we use, uh, based on something that we really care for.
It's more like a blue sky and something, uh, not yet, uh, program or project, but something that we can do.
So we have a, some of that, uh, the flexibility and I my goal is getting all the eight national labs have a little bit of that.
Uh, uh, the research money, uh, that helping the, uh, the muon collider, of course, they have to gain.
They have to gain, too. So there's something that's synergistic to muon collider and their knees.
So we'll have to find that sort of common areas.
So that's, um, the, uh, going on and I'm hoping to, uh, finalize the membership of this study group by the end of August.
Uh, and, uh. Keep you informed.
Then probably study can be about a year or so.
A late spring or early summer next year.
So we'll get to that report. I think it's very important to have all the national labs are participating, to my mind,
because Collider is challenging and having, uh, the national labs to pick some of,
uh, the key challenges and do it and of course, together, that doesn't mean on us will do, but of course, collaborating with all of the international.
But I think keeping or picking this eight national labs because we are all in the D.o.e. system.
So there are some, uh, the benefit of the national lab D.o.e. national labs can to get together and, uh, work on.
So I thought it was a good to tell you. That's what's going on.
Again, this is not separate from your work. I've been, uh, closely discussing, uh, this idea with the leadership of, uh, the immune collider.
So, uh, um, so I think together we can make a really good progress.
Um, that. I, I think it looks it looks actually the, um, our colleague from Ohio Office of High Energy Physics.
They understand what we are doing. They understand what I'm doing, these other labs and forming the study group.
So, um, I see that we are getting a lot of support from, um, you know, all around we may not have a lot of money yet from funding agency.
That's why I think we can. Your work is a very key.
And the national labs. Eldred. Sum of support is is a really important step so that we can make a huge progress.
So with that, I just want to thank you and, uh, look forward to seeing more progress in the future.
You don't that. Uh. Probably not. And it's getting late, so we'll try not to keep you for too long.
Just want to say a few words. Uh, about the collaboration, membership and a few other news.
Very quickly. Maybe you kick it off. Um, thank you so much for those words, Yankee.
Um, so, yes, I really want to encourage everybody in this room.
If you're interested in me on Collider, you absolutely should join the USBc.
Uh, officially. Um, and to do that, all you have to do is just email me and Sara, and we'll point you, uh, to how to do that.
There's not really a downside. There's not a lot of cost.
And, uh, we promise not to charge register, uh, participation fee, at least for the next two years.
And basically, the the way that joining looks is if you're really actively contributing, you join, you become a voting member.
If you're a supporter, you can join and become a non-voting member. Um, so we'd love to have you guys all in that collaboration.
It basically means that you're one of the people that we are going to be trying to shape this, uh, this collaboration for.
So that's what you get out of it. Maybe just do a few words about this.
Uh, I think you guys have seen the charts we I showed on the first day of the meeting.
Um, I think we have a lot of young faces in this room, early career participants.
And I think that's not reflected than in the charts. So you clearly are contributing to the effort.
You're, uh, working on this? Interested in this?
Um, you are supporting the effort, but you're not officially members, and we don't intend to take 100% of your time, right?
I mean, we understand that your you devote your time to your you have your day job that you need to continue working.
But if you even allocate a small fraction of your time to this effort, that would be extremely helpful.
And the same is true of, um, other frontiers.
We are dominated right now by the experimental frontier. I think we would like to get more engagement from the accelerator frontier.
That's absolutely crucial. Again, any fraction of the time you can devote to this would be extremely helpful.
Uh, we showed you that the combination combination of, um, senior, experienced,
skilled accelerator physicists and young students is very powerful, as you've seen through posters, presentations.
Um, hopefully we can grow this effort if there is support for this at national labs, that does help.
And I think we should we should continue doing this in there is right.
We understand you guys are free agents and you should continue being so.
We're not gonna we're not gonna tell you.
But, you know, we were there during Snowmass where we had the Across Frontier Forum from Three Frontiers was extremely successful.
People were on the same page exchanging ideas, kind of working towards a common goal.
We would like to maintain that if possible. Um, and so, uh, we'll be sending around, um, uh,
a doc that's basically inviting you guys to give us feedback on what this organization can do for you.
And we especially want for the new people who are trying to get join, uh, join and get settled and find a project and contribute in a real way.
Tell us about any stumbling blocks that you're finding. Tell us about what we could be creating and structures that could make things easier for you.
Um, specifically. Also, I wanted to thank our international guests for this meeting.
We have several guests from outside of the US. We're extremely grateful that you guys are here.
We would like to continue the strong collaboration with Europe and Asia.
Um, strengthen this collaboration. Reach out to other parts of the world.
We did hear good news that the Office of General Counsel is making progress with certainty or collaborative agreement on muon collider.
They're saying that they have a draft. They will, um, soon pass it to CERN.
So hopefully we'll converge on this and we'll have, uh, official, uh, um, you know, official ways to collaborate together between the two regions.
Well, uh, I guess then we wanted to thank Harry again for doing such a wonderful job organizing this meeting.
And that's it all for the official closeout.
Now thank you guys so much for your help in organizing this.
Um, I wanted to just as I was closing out, put up photos so you guys could see all of the fun that you had this week.
Um. Oh, this is the opposite way of my. Um, so that'll that'll just play in the background.
Um, no, thank you very much, Sergio. And, um, and Toba, for all of your help in organizing this.
Um, it definitely kind of come together without you guys.
Um, same thing for all of the program organizers, um, for the meeting and the school.
Uh, it was a fantastic week.
Um, I couldn't pay attention to as many of the lectures or the talks as I wanted to, but everything I was able to follow was fantastic.
Um, I was reflecting a bit on, um, how this meeting compared to last year's meeting at Fermilab and last year's meeting,
I would characterize by just, you know, tons of enthusiasm.
Um, but if I thought about sort of the talks that were given, it was a lot of, you know, plots from Snowmass, um, plots or mCMC.
And if I think about what was shown at this meeting, it's a lot of new results with new faces, new names associated with those results.
Um, it's a lot of progress from the US.
And so I think that is really I think it's amazing that we were able to translate that enthusiasm to actual progress, to actual research.
Um, and we were able to maintain the enthusiasm as we did, that I still felt that same enthusiasm,
especially from all of the attendees at the school, who who made it through to the end of the week.
Um, and yeah, I was just thinking on some of the great stuff that we've had happen this year between the Elder Desert National Labs,
the Simons Foundation Award, um, some of the fancy fellowships and early career awards that younger faculty have gotten.
Um, and putting this money to actually have young people be able to devote a significant amount of time and make progress.
Um, so thinking about all of the accelerator students that were at Fermilab this summer,
thinking about how the Maya detector design was put on the archive between last year and this year's meeting, how?
Um, at jgi, a lot of simulation challenges were directly addressed.
It's increasingly becoming more realistic. Um, all of the new neutrino ideas that have come out in the past year is also kind of crazy.
So anyway, this was just to say it was it was wonderful to hear all of this science being done.
Um, and I really enjoyed the the meeting.
I enjoyed the enthusiasm as, um, and seeing the progress. And I and I hope we can continue to grow, um, and make more progress next year.
Um, so thank you very much. And, uh, we'll see you guys in a year.
If not before then.
