# Future Collider Options and Discussion, Steve Gourlay

All right. So I guess we better get better. Get started here. Good evening everyone.
Thanks for coming. Um, so the intent here is for this to be fun.
Okay. Very informal and just fun, because next three days, it's going to be fun, but it's going to be a lot more intense.
But I really envy you guys because you're going to get to learn from some of the best accelerator physicists in the world.
And that is something I would have liked to have done, you know, 30 years ago or so.
Anyway. So I'm not going to just go through a list of all the collider options.
I'm going to give you a list of collider options,
but I'm also going to show you a little bit about the process that we have to go through to get to those options.
So hopefully I can do this in an hour or less. All right.
So how do we get to a decision. So I want to start with the context for a future Collider roadmap.
All right. So one thing is really important is that you need broad community support.
And Jim Siegrist, who is a former HPE associate director, said bickering scientists get nothing.
And that's very true. And it's not always easy to get a bunch of physicists on the same page, right?
There's a lot of interesting stuff to do.
And what we do is it's a difficult decision, and we also have to consider what technologies would be required.
Are they feasible and what's the technical risk? I think you should always have a little bit of technical risk.
How much is a good question? How far do we have to go to realize that?
What is the state of the art right now at the point we're making decisions?
What are we projected to be? How much will it cost?
Okay, that's a big deal. And who's willing to pay for it? And also another big deal.
And then what route or routes do we take to get to the physics? There's usually more than one way to get there.
And then the other thing is sort of intangible, is that we have to make sure there's no big gaps between one machine and another,
because the community is just going to go off to Wall Street or some other place, you know, make money, and that's not good.
So I want to start with what I thought was the best question.
At the community summer study in Washington, summer 22 students said after one of our guys went through this list,
sort of what I'm going to do, why can't you just pick one?
Okay, good question, but it's complicated.
So, you know, in terms of discovery, potential physics wants the highest energy possible.
Right off the bat. Theorists are saying, hey, how about a 30 TeV muon collider?
We said, well, we have to nip that in the bud right away because that's, you know, it's really kind of off the real axis right now.
Power consumption is becoming more and more important, and environmental impact is also something to consider.
Footprint, believe it or not, as a limitation in most cases and then societal and political sports required,
it has to be a coordinated international effort because not one region can do everything and the cost and of course the technological limits again.
So start out with the physics that's central. And what physics do we want to do.
Then you throw in cost, geography, power requirements, societal will and politics and then enabling technologies and what those are.
So you know, if you're out here and enabling technologies, you need to work your way to the sweet spot in the overlap region here.
So I can give you an example and you'll see it a couple of times in my talk, because I'm going to talk about FCC quite a bit.
But the CERN started out with wanting to build a 100 kilometer tunnel for 100 TeV with 16 Tesla magnets.
So that was our mantra. We're going to do this, we're going to do this.
And then they find out, well, we can't fit a 100 kilometer tunnel in the region around Geneva.
So they try and they try and they tried many, many iterations. They got down to 91km, which is more or less exactly what the SSC was in Texas.
56. Okay. Hello.
Okay. Um, so and then the enabling technology, they realized, well, wait a minute, it's not 16 Tesla anymore.
If it's 91km and 100 TV. So the magnetic fields gotta go up.
Well, let me tell you, the 16 Tesla was a little crazy to begin with because what you had to realize
when when the magnet guy tells you or you ask them for a 16 Tesla magnet,
you need to add 25% to that, because the magnets operate around 2,075% of their conductor limit.
All right. That's where we are right now.
So that's something we actually need to work on because that's a lot of money for nothing to get that extra margin.
So they're talking about not a 20 Tesla magnet to operate at 16, but you know, 24 something like that.
And that's just crazy. And they realize that okay, now they've gone down to 14 Tesla which makes a lot more sense.
So you see this process taking place. Uh, in this case.
So I'm going to talk about the long process of sausage making.
And no, I don't I don't think it's really boring.
Maybe real sausage is boring or just gross. I don't know which, but, uh, this is fun.
Okay. And that's partly why I came out of retirement to come back to Fermilab,
because I wanted to continue work on this strategic planning stuff, which I just think is great.
But you're the ones that are going to be doing this thing, not me. Okay, so this is all about you guys.
All right. So I'm just going to go through the Snowmass process.
So every ten years about we have this strategic planning process, uh, starting with Snowmass.
Now Snowmass, we actually have these meetings in Snowmass, Colorado, with the whole community.
A lot of us would go there for three weeks in the mountains doing calculations,
doing all kinds of things, having meetings and so on, and coming up with our big plan.
Well, that got too expensive or, you know, too much of a boondoggle, whatever they wanted to call it.
And so, you know, we've been to places like, uh, Minnesota and Washington, which are beautiful too.
Um, but you notice that the, uh, the time frame for these meetings, uh, is quite reduced.
And part of that is because, you know, zoom is easy to use and, and, uh, that work pretty well.
But each country or region has their own approach for setting priorities, but they are done in an international context.
So we have to keep an eye on what CERN is going to do, what Japan might do, what China might do, and, uh, take that into consideration.
And the EU planning process is somewhat, uh, similar, the European strategy for particle physics and always predates the US,
uh, strategic planning process, but it has significant influence on that.
Now, right now, the International Linear Collider, which is Moy,
that's been talked about and worked on for a couple of decades now, I think it's still on the table.
Uh, Japan has not yet given up on that. And there are serious discussions on a large scale facility in China, but no decisions yet.
They have a totally different, um, process than we do.
But but they can plan things. They have a five year plan. So once it gets in the five year plan, it's pretty much a done deal in the US.
Maybe not so much sometimes. All right. So here's the process for Snowmass.
Uh, this time it was about a three year process due to Covid.
Uh d.o.e. said, look, guys, don't rush because the projects aren't making as much progress because of Covid and so on.
So we had plenty of time and we started in April of 2020.
Uh, zoom, of course. And with the community study gathering input from the, uh, community.
So we provide input to the Particle Physics Project Prioritization Panel, or P5, and they develop the strategy.
So we don't make any prioritization from the Snowmass, uh, community.
P5 does all that. So it's this process of Snowmass and then P5 and that's fed back to Doe and NSF and then some more work.
Then we have another Snowmass and so on. And things converge hopefully in that process.
All right. So this is the way it's organized. There's an advisory group steering committee.
And then Snowmass Frontiers or ten of them I'll show you what those were.
We had liaisons between the different groups because we need to communicate,
you know, theory and experiment need to communicate and so on and so forth.
And then topical groups that could focus on, uh, detailed aspects of the frontiers.
And then, of course, the community underlies the whole thing and give the input to Snowmass.
And these are the frontiers, all of them here. These are the the leaders of the each frontier.
So we had, for instance, Energy Frontier, which is what we're interested in mostly.
And that's what the accelerator guys were interested a lot. Uh, we also looked at, um, rare and precision, uh, accelerator based experiments.
Uh, theory was involved, of course. And, uh, that was that was pretty much it our overlaps.
So we had, uh, 30 conveners, 250 topical group conveners, 40.
Uh, I can't read the Inner Frontier liaisons and 25 early career liaisons.
So the early career folks had a very strong voice.
And all this because it's going to be your thing, right? So we had to make sure we paid attention to that.
So the accelerator frontier, then we were supposed to, uh, get all this information in, um,
talk about all the different technologies that are required and evaluate all these proposals in some fair way.
So one of the key questions are what is needed to advance the physics?
What is currently available? What's the state of the art around the world, not just the US?
What new accelerator facilities could be available in the next decade or the next next decade?
Because we're looking at, you know, sadly, very long term things nowadays.
What? R&D when enable these future opportunities.
And what are the time and cost scales of the R&D and associated test facilities, as well as the time and cost scale of the facilities?
Again, you know, minding the gap and making sure there's no big gaps between facilities worldwide.
So these were the topical groups within the accelerator frontier with being physics accelerators for neutrinos,
electroweak Higgs multi TeV colliders, which is what we're talking about.
Um, rare processes, advanced accelerator concepts.
These are all technologies here. So advanced accelerator concepts, uh RF magnets,
targets and sources and beam physics are all part of the general accelerator R&D program in high energy physics.
So those are nice overlaps there. So we considered all relevant accelerator facilities and the supporting technologies in the guard program.
And here's what I just mentioned. These are the thrust areas and guard.
Now these are supposed to be you know, general blue sky sorts of R&D that are not directed at any particular facility in the future.
It has to be very generic as part of the charge. And this is this is from 2021.
But the ratios have not changed much. It may be that may be changing in the future,
as they try to focus on technologies that they think would be useful for future facilities that we're talking about now.
And it's not a lot of money, but it's, uh, you know, it's been more in the past.
It's probably going to be less for a while. We did have some directed programs that are no longer going on right now.
We had the LHC Accelerator Research program developing magnets for the air upgrades for CERN that that, uh, R&D program has done.
Now as a project, we're delivering magnets from Fermilab, Brookhaven and Berkeley to CERN for the upgrade.
And we had the Map neon accelerator program that was that went on for quite a while before that was canceled.
And we also had ILC, and we don't have any of those right now. So we're thinking about, you know, what would be the next directed R&D program.
Now there's also facilities for facility operations. So we have for instance at Fermilab we have test facilities for magnets and RF,
and Argonne has um accelerator facility, uh Fermilab as Iota, which is a um, a uh beam physics experiment.
And then slack has the next linear accelerator test, uh, test, uh, area.
I think something like that. Maybe somebody knows that, forget all these acronyms.
And, uh, that's where the money goes for facilities. And then we had the, the, uh, seven ATF topical groups and we thought, well, we need another one.
We need one more topical groups. Why not to be able to compare on a sort of apples to apples, um, level the different proposals for future facilities,
you know, how do you compare any plus or minus machine to a hadron machine to a different way of doing all these things?
So we got these guys together as volunteers, so to speak. So we had a large number of possible accelerator projects, more than 30.
Uh, we actually had to pare that down to focus on Hep colliders, Higgs factories and high energy colliders, which still was quite a few.
And so we formed some subcommittees to analyze, evaluate and compare their proposals with regard to physics reach and impact,
um, size, complexity, power consumption and environmental impact, technical risk, technical readiness and validation.
Cost and schedule. Cost and schedule is a good way to get in trouble with people.
When you tell them how much their thing is going to cost. But actually, we skated through that pretty, pretty successfully.
We didn't get a lot of, uh, blowback on that.
But you can as an exercise, you can go read this report, but I think it's still quite valid right now to, uh, compare these different facilities.
It gives a little description of each one so you can sort of catch up on what was happening.
All right. So we developed a set of metrics to evaluate the proposals, as I said.
And we got parameter spreadsheets from more than 60 entries of 24 major collider proposals, collected them from all the proponents.
Uh, we did a factual review of the report, um, with the proponents to make sure we didn't say anything that was was not what they intended,
but we did not review the ultimate performance of their proposed facilities.
That's just too hard. That's a lot of design effort and so on.
You really don't get to that point until you've been into a project for several years.
Actually. Do you really know what you can get out of it?
And then we looked at the, uh, R&D requirements, estimated cost and technically limited schedule.
So we didn't allow for, you know, the typical funding issues and so on, what is technically feasible time frame for getting these things done.
All right. So to facilitate, um.
Uh, and evaluate, uh, in a way that would be most useful to Snowmass.
We group them into four categories.
Actually there's five, but and then plus one that's looking for ones that could be located at Fermilab because for the first time,
first time since the SSC was canceled, the community started thinking about an energy frontier machine on US soil.
All right. That kind of burned the community for a long time.
And, uh, kind of put a put a damper on things, uh, locally here.
So we looked at. Whoopsie. Not that back, back.
Here we go.
So we're like Higgs factory colliders in a center of mass energy range of 250 high energy lepton colliders up to three TeV center of mass energy,
lepton and hadron collider colliders, and a ten TV or higher parton center of mass energy.
We pick partons because, you know, protons are not muons are not electrons.
And we have to sort of normalize those two um species, um, lepton hadron Collider, which are sort of outliers.
I mean, they were they were in there, but they were not as front and center as some of these others.
And then collider versions that could be located at Fermilab.
So in the very beginning of SSC, we were really pitching to have the SSC at Fermilab.
It made a lot of sense because we had all the infrastructure and so on.
But again, it was a community thing that they were not very happy about having this tunnel, you know, 300ft underneath their house.
Okay. They wouldn't even know it was there.
But, you know, it's, uh, you really you really got to take these things in to account because it has nothing to do,
nothing within our control, really, except maybe some outreach.
And, you know, CERN does a pretty good job in that. Um, so we took one version of each concept, and that was selected by the proponents to look at,
we did not consider include staging possibilities of different collider proposals for for instance,
we didn't look at FCC followed by FCC, H.H. The Hadron Machine,
which is what CERN's plan is, and we considered each one on its own, uh, independently.
And the only exceptions were the Lepton and Hadron Collider, which are typically upgrades of existing facilities.
All right, so where does the cost of these large scale, uh, facilities?
So the scale is set by energy length, power and technology.
So power production delivery and distribution as infrastructure.
Um, civil construction is a big part and one of the biggest uncertainties in any project, because it's not driven by anything.
We do a cost of civil construction and so on. So that's that's something that can get you some point.
And half of it is in the accelerator. Components are magnets and RF systems which make up largely make up colliders.
And the progress depends on development of enabling technologies, which is why they have the garden program to develop these technologies,
to be able to do machines that are more and more sophisticated as time goes on.
All right. Another consideration energy is not going to cost less in a future.
Not unless somebody builds fusion reactors. Yeah.
In the near future, which I don't think is going to happen in the near future anyway.
So here's a recent example. CERN had to cut their experiment time by 20% because of energy costs.
All right. It's going to be continued to be an issue for for every consideration.
So when you look at a machine, one of the things you look at is what is power consumption going to be and is that going to be,
you know, something that the local environment's going to, uh, accept.
All right. So a view from the energy frontier. So this slide was shown by, um, the CERN director general, I think, at the Brookhaven P5.
Oh, I see my lines are out of order there.
But, um, there was when we looked at this timeline here, there was I felt there was an audible gasp when they said,
look, this is 2070, you know, depresses me a lot, right?
And a lot of other people too. And, and I think to me, this seems to be where the muon collider started to gain a lot of momentum.
All right. Something we could build a lot sooner. It's going to be a lot harder than that.
But that's okay I like hard. That's what we should be doing.
We should be doing things that nobody else can do if we, you know, if somebody else can do it, let them.
It's fine. So they had several things on the table. Um, there is Japan still, um, floating around with the ILC?
China is still in the game with their, uh, circular electron positron collider and followed by a proton proton collider,
just sort of like the CERN thing with like they did with LEP.
All right. So 80 plus or minus machine. Now they're going to build a big tunnel to E plus or minus and new hadrons again.
So they lep lhc FCC e FCC.
That's their plan. And that keeps them in the forefront for a long, long time.
Right. And then there's um Clic which is an electron positron collider, kind of an, uh, energy hungry machine, but, uh, pretty clever.
And then there's, uh, coming out of the US.
We have cubed cool copper collider. These are, um, normal conducting copper RF cavities at liquid nitrogen temperature.
So what you get there, as you get a stronger materials and you get less breakdown from that.
And that's and that was kind of interesting. And then the muon collider which has been around quite a while.
But uh, it rose again. And you know, um, sometimes ideas are just premature.
You know, you can you can pick an idea that somebody came up with 40 years ago and say, well,
now's a good time to do it, because we have the technology that looks like it's viable at that point.
So and we even considered proposing locating the ILC in the US that has not, uh, gained much, uh, attention.
All right. So at the time of Snowmass, the community buzz, what I got was that we should continue the Fermilab neutrino program.
Obviously, we've invested a lot, and that has to be completed.
So if you guys want to work on that while you're doing muon collider, that would be fantastic.
All right. We have to make that successful. Our credibility is on the line in this great physics.
And then we also have invested a lot in the LHC and the high Lumi LHC, which we're contributing to, and both the detectors and the accelerator.
So we want to squeeze as much physics as we can out of that.
And then there was a very strong push very generally across around the world to build a Higgs factory,
because, you know, we're trying to figure out what the heck the Higgs really, really is.
And, uh, there's some R&D required for these various, um, proposals here, but that should be the next thing to do.
And then for the energy frontier discovery machines, we have the FCC hadron Hadron Collider,
which is protons, the China machine and the muon Collider,
which is a compact design, which is good because compact usually means not so expensive, and you have fewer geographical challenges to deal with.
And it can be on the Fermilab site, which is great for us. And like I said, it allows a variety of exciting options.
All right. So these options require beyond state of the art.
So here's the FCC. This is your the original 100 TV and went down to 91.
Look at the operating power 560MW. That's that's a lot.
Okay. That's something to consider. Uh, the SPC, they want to start at 75 and go to 125.
And, you know, their power consumption is a little less because it's a lower energy.
And the muon collider is great because it has even less energy per luminosity, or at least power per luminosity than, than the other ones.
So these are all, you know, interesting looking things.
Uh, Navy in 310, uh, was discovered in 1961 or something is, for the first time, being put into an accelerator.
It kind of tells you how hard it is to work with some of these materials, because it's brittle.
It's like glass, and you put it under tremendous forces in it.
It breaks. Um, so it makes it very difficult.
Um, so FCC should be the staged stage thing here, and that seems to be at the top of the list for, uh, for CERN right now.
And then the muon Collider, which is, uh, has a lot of features.
So it's, you know, 11., it's a discovery machine.
And another way, it's a precision machine because it's a lepton. And you can probe, um, more precisely with leptons.
Now Higgs factories. ILC, as I said, have been around a long time.
Uh, they claim that it's nearly shovel ready.
There are there are some still challenges with that.
Uh, for all the you plus your minus machines, the positron source is is a limiting factor on the minority.
Right now, I think the technology is about two orders of magnitude behind where it needs
to be to make these things achieve the luminosity that they're advertising.
But, you know, that's not a maybe it's not a big deal, but it's something that has to be worked on.
Um, so there's more work to do on cost reduction, uh, the cavities.
So it's just a lot of, uh, superconducting RF cavities that have to be made and have to operate at the highest possible gradient for,
you know, this number of cavities. And there has to be some international cooperation agreement.
Now, one of the mistakes, I think it was made with the SC was that the US kind of took it on as their as their own
project and then ask other other regions to contribute rather than starting from the top,
and was getting all the other regions together to start with us saying, this is what we're going to do, let's do it together.
And, uh, I think we've learned from that. And I think the process this time is starting at that, at that higher level makes a lot more sense.
And then there's click, which is sort of an induction, um, uh, machine.
It has two beams. One beam is, has a drive beam which is high current, low energy.
And then that's used to accelerate the other beam.
So this is also fairly compact. Um, it's at the conceptual design level right now.
CERN has done a lot of work on it though, and it's, uh, you know, it's still hanging around out there,
but the energy consumption gets a little high for the higher energies that they want to go to for like HT bar or something like that.
And then there's C cube, which is a cool copper collider.
So these are the cavities that work at 77 Kelvin. Yeah.
Like I said they have increased material strength higher gradient higher conductivity.
And that that helps a lot too.
Uh, the cryo is relatively simple. It's liquid nitrogen. Uh, there's still some questions about that, but it could be used maybe not for,
um, a linear collider of its own, but as an injector for another collider.
So that's it's still alive. And then there's FCC e, which is sort of more of the same as a big ring.
Lots of RF, very, very low field magnets, you know, point and I see 55 milli Tesla or something like that lower than yours field.
So you have to worry about that actually. Um, that's claim to be shovel ready.
Uh, you're talking about nanometer beams.
You can imagine trying to align and maintain alignment of nanometer beams nanometers.
It's just kind of hard to get my head around and keep them there in order to maintain luminosity.
If you miss, you get zero, right? So it's that that is going to be one of the challenges for any of these, uh,
these, uh, you plus you minus colliders along with the positron source as well.
All right. And CPC is a lot like the FCC. It's going to be a stage scheme.
As for the FCC H-h and they're going to do all the same physics, more or less.
Um, they claim a shovel. Ready. They have a TR technical design report in 2021.
They plan to start construction in 2022, but they're not in the five year plan yet.
And that's supposed to happen very soon. So that's been delayed. This is an old slide.
So they were a little more optimistic uh three years ago.
And then the muon collider, that's what we're all here right. Um, so it has a lower luminosity requirement, smaller energy spread.
You need large, more high field dipoles because you've got a lot of decay products that you've got to shield the magnets from.
Um, energy reaches seven times more than peep because instead of, you know, uh, a bag of quarks and gluons, you've got a single muon.
Uh, luminosity power ratio is best among lepton colliders because electrons being very light,
as you focus them and collide them, they tend to disrupt each other is called beam strong.
And that's not so bad with them with a muon, which is much more massive than electrons.
And as I said before, you can do precision and exploratory physics with the same, same machine.
And that is really a conceptual design, uh, point right now.
And it didn't fare well in the last Snowmass. It didn't really rise to, uh, too much attention.
It was the ILC back then. That was what everybody was going for.
And we did a lot of work on that. And then there's some more, uh, I don't want to say bizarre, but I said it already.
Uh, more conceptual ideas.
Um, this is a. A photon photon collider. So you just need two photons that are each half of the Higgs mass.
You just make a nice Higgs poof. But you need X-ray free electron lasers to collide.
Make these gammas to collide. That's that's hard because they don't exist.
And so this is sort of okay, now now, you know somebody will do it eventually.
But, uh, I, you know, it's a pretty it's pretty neat idea.
I don't know about the physics reach, though, and, you know, capability for upgrades and so on.
So it's really just a Higgs Higgs factory. But it's a clever idea, I thought.
And then there's, uh, recirculating linear accelerators and energy recovery links.
So an R0 really uses the same RF structures many times for the same beam.
Um, so you have, you know, the arcs for the magnets are less costly than RF.
Um, I claim to get better beam quality and they allow use of energy recovery.
So and RL just means the beam that didn't didn't collide gets reused.
All right. Now when they when they do, when the beams do collide they get disrupted somewhat.
So now you have to kind of cool them back down again.
And the question is, you know, can you do that well enough to come around again for another round of collisions.
But this energy recovery is what's proposed. Makes a lot of ideas a long time ago.
I'm sorry. Tickner. Uh, to decelerate the used beam back through the accelerating structures that are out of phase.
So you're putting energy back into them rather than taking energy out to accelerate the beam.
And, uh, the claim is that SRF technology is mature enough now to make it feasible, but that's a bit of a stretch.
And, uh, you know, it's considered to be too much of a stretch for a near-term machine,
but it's something to keep an eye on for the future, I think, because the energy recovery part is very important in linear colliders.
You get one pass, that's it, and they're gone. So each time you you waste a lot of electrons and positrons.
And then so they came up with some compact, uh, concepts here.
Uh Collider using Energy Recovery Linux. This would be in the, uh, in the proposed tunnel for FCC.
So the 91 kilometer tunnel. All right.
And they claim they can get a significant fraction of the energy back.
And there's, you know, as I mentioned, the admittance over the long arcs is something you have to worry about.
You can get polarized beings and energies, maybe up to 600 GV this way, and they have proposed a linear version of the same thing.
This is sort of a race track for electrons and positrons because they're going all over the place.
You know, like for instance, they'll start here and they'll pass through here, get slowed down,
get put into a damping ring to get their mittens back, put back out to the linac decline again, back here, back and forth.
I don't know how many times that's to be determined, but you know, you got to admit that's a pretty neat idea.
I like that. And then there are the plasmon based concepts.
You know, a lot of times, um, these machines are based on 1 or 2 really neat features.
All right.
And plasma is based largely on the gradients they can get within plasmas that are orders of magnitude higher than you can get in an RF cavity.
That's where it starts. And then the hard part is getting lasers with enough rep rate to make a collider.
What happens, you know, to the plasma. How long does it hang around before the next bunch comes through?
Uh, what is the the admittance of the beams? You know, how do you take care of all that?
But it's really, really interesting physics.
And, uh, you know, I think some of the first steps will be to build, uh, compact light sources using this technique.
That would be a great way to start. So we can demonstrate that that technology actually actually works well.
And then you can talk about, uh, a future machine. And the problem with this again is would be a timing thing.
So we're along this timeline of the future machines.
Would a plasma accelerator fit? Well, it's going to be quite a ways down the line because it's still very immature.
And you want to do the Higgs factory now and you know how to do it now several other different ways.
So it's kind of competing in that in that sense as well.
Just like the muon collider, it's not going to be the next machine, but it could be the next next machine because of the maturity level.
All right. Fermilab site fillers. Well, so yeah, this is an opportunity to consider options that could be built in the US, especially at Fermilab.
And so we could do a C cubed cool copper collider of up to seven kilometers and get 550 GeV.
Need a linear high gradient RF collider using a standing wave,
traveling wave structures from 250 to 500 and then a 16 kilometer circumference circular E plus or minus collider 90 to 40.
And a proton proton collider at 24 to 2017 EV and 23 to 27 Tesla dipoles.
Okay, two things wrong with that one. The energy jump is not enough in my opinion.
You need I think you need a lot more than that. And then 23 to 27 Tesla dipoles.
Well, I'm not going there. Um, not in my lifetime.
And then the one I like, of course, is a stage muon collider from Higgs.
125 up to 8 to 25. Well, you know, during Snowmass, it was pretty much ruled that the muon collider is not the greatest Higgs factory.
All right. And given the fact that it's not going to be the next machine, it's probably not going to compete just like some of the other machines.
And then hadron lepton colliders. Okay, there's HGH again. I mentioned I won't spend any time on this.
Went from 100 TeV 100km 16 Tesla down to 91km, 85 TeV and 14 Tesla.
That kind of makes sense. But it's still going to be extremely expensive.
All right.
They're going to have to use not even 3/10 of not even titanium to get to make a 17 Tesla magnet, which is just on the edge of not even 310.
And I mean 310 cost five times as much as niobium titanium.
And from my you guys can figure this out for yourself.
See if you agree.
But my feeling is that if we're going to build another large scale machine that the conductor we will use, which will need to be in large quantities.
There has to be an existing large industrial capacity in the world, because it's going to take a lot of conductor.
And there's going to be no cost reduction.
There's one company that makes the good stuff that we're using that CERN is using to build the upgrade magnets,
and that that tells you right there that the cost is not going to go down.
In fact, we thought that, I mean, 310 would go down because of Iter.
Now this is not even 310. That's not so great.
But it's good enough for fusion magnets. And we had eight companies around the world making it cost went down just a little bit,
because there were just enough companies to deliver the amount of material needed.
No competition. All right. And each country is going to contribute their share anyway.
So all right, that didn't work so well. But the high temperature superconductors, Remco in particular I like Remco I like 2 to 1 two as well.
This bismuth 2 to 1 two. But Repco is uh.
It must be. I don't know how many darn companies make.
Rebecca doesn't make a lot.
Yeah, and it's growing, you know, and because the fusion community is driving this thing and the cost is coming down just because of, uh, volume.
So that's, you know, we don't know how to make magnets. Very well. The magnet lab knows how to make them.
Uh, we don't know how much about making them at Fermilab yet, but we're going to learn, and I think that's the way to go for us anyway.
And then the SPC, again, this is interesting because they want to use, um, iron based superconductor IBM's.
And that's still in the R&D stage. They've made some progress.
We have a little bit of work going on here in the US, but not much. Uh, so I think that's interesting.
So we're keeping our eye on that progress over there. They make they can do things fast.
They really can. And if they want to. So that's something to look at.
So we'll you know we'll see what happens there.
Um, um, they're the head of their high energy physics, uh, community was at this meeting, uh, at the end of June.
And they asked him, well, you know, if if FCC goes through, are you guys going to build this?
He said no. So we only need one. These machines in the world, which I thought was was pretty interesting.
Now we'll see if it's the opposite. What happens, what we'll start to do.
And then there are these, uh, lepton hadron Collider. These would all be, uh, add ons to current machines.
So this is a peak, uh, intermediate.
It's an intermediate option for the next machine.
So this would sit next to the LHC and inject into the LHC.
And that would use energy recovery. It you'll see in a minute that that that is it's interesting.
But it didn't didn't rise very high in uh, list of things that we should do.
All right. Now here's a few that didn't make the initial cut that were proposed or talked about at some point, uh, the McIntyre Collider under the.
See what? I mean, if you don't know Peter McIntyre, he is extremely creative.
You know, he comes up with some wild ideas. And this is pretty cool.
So this would be the obviously the ultimate Hadron Collider. So it floats in the Gulf of Mexico and they're low cost magnets.
And he even has robots down there you know putting the thing together. But look at this.
200GW. That's quite a few fusion reactors.
Floating, floating and floating in the Gulf of Mexico.
But you gotta. You gotta hand it to him. The guy is, uh. He's great. And then high energy LHC.
Now, this was something I was talking about a long time ago when they started thinking about this.
You know, let's just make higher fuel magnets and put them in the LHC tunnel.
All right, well, that gets you, you know, a factor of two and energy from eight eight Tesla, 16 Tesla.
Um, but at that, you know, at this time 12 or 14 is closer to being ready.
So for me, it felt like we were kind of leapfrogging the the natural progression in higher field magnets by going from, you know,
11 Tesla, which are the fields in the quadrupole that were building for LHC to 16 Tesla, which would be a 20 Tesla magnet.
Okay. Um, and that that just seemed to be a bit much.
And I think that they everybody else realized that as well.
And the problem with building in the existing LHC tunnel is that the LHC would finish before they could.
They really start to do anything, and then parts of it have to cool down because it's quite radioactive.
Not all of it, but some of it. And it would take a while to get in there, and then there'd be kind of a big gap.
Doesn't mean you can build all the magnets in the meantime, but, uh, you know, that was a that was a detriment to that idea.
And then the LHC Energy Tripler, you know, um, this is using the 91, uh, kilometer tunnel,
but only seven Tesla superconducting niobium dipoles operating a 4.5 K,
basically reproducing what was done for SuperCollider and what was done for the LHC.
Okay, so inexpensive new titanium magnets, relatively inexpensive.
They'd be $2 million apiece today, uh, instead of one, which they were 20 years ago.
So that's all existing technology that didn't get a lot, of lot of traction for whatever reason.
And then LEP three, I've seen this rise and fall and rise and fall over the last ten years or so.
Even the proponents in the past say, let's not do that, because again, you have to use the existing tunnel.
You'd put an E plus E minus machine in that tunnel at a higher energy.
Um, so you can squeeze enough energy for associated, uh, Higgs production.
Um, it wasn't even proposed at Snowmass. But like I say, it periodically arises again as an option.
And bureaucrats will look at the tunnel and say, why can't we just put another machine in here,
you know, okay, it's cheaper, so I have to deal with that.
How am I doing on time here? Oh, I got the okay, I better move it.
All right. So P5 recommendations, highest priority high Lumi LHC and finish dune and pip too.
In other words, finish what you started. All right. We got to do that. Don't forget that.
Then offshore Higgs factory. I've already gone through this, so I'm going to rip right through us and then supporting activities.
They said a lot about vigorous R&D enhancing theory.
Expand the general accelerator R&D program, instrumentation development.
Um, define you know, what we're going to do next. And then cyber infrastructure is very important.
Computing and novel data analysis techniques. You know, AI is a big thing right now.
And we're you know, we're doing a lot of that at Fermilab, are gearing up to do a lot of AI related stuff, and that could be very interesting.
Yunqi wants to design and be on Collider using AI, so I think it's a good, good goal.
Why not? Why not? Uh, we can work on that and then develop plans for improving the Fermilab accelerator complex so we can support.
It'll be an afternoon, for instance, and be prepared to do demos for the muon Collider and some other things.
So there's a near-term branch point they put in there.
They said form a targeted panel, uh, later in the decade that makes decisions on the US accelerator based program.
Okay. Now this is this is where I get to become a lawyer.
So it says, uh, at the time when major decisions concerning an offshore Higgs factory are expected,
and this is part and or significant adjustments within the accelerator based R&D portfolio, following are likely to be needed.
All right. So the panel should consider this Higgs factory test and demonstrator facilities and the evolution of the Fermilab accelerator complex.
But they talk about a ten TeV part on center of mass machine.
Um, why make sure the program aligns with the long term ambition of hosting a major international collider facility in the US,
leading to the global effort. Um, I mean, collider is attractive.
Um, we don't know if it's feasible there. Um, and so on, you know, prepare for this.
This is our muon shot. I'm glad they came up with that. And then post PS5 developments.
Things started moving rapidly after PS5. Um, this is Twitter.
Robin Heimer gave a talk last week at the DPF community meeting where he said
the LHC has been doing great physics with much greater precision than expected,
and high Lumi should be. Lumi will continue that program.
Um, a large fraction of the community would like to pursue a higher energy hadron collider.
In fact, there are people at CERN that want to go straight to H-h. They don't want to mess around with E plus or minus.
I don't know if that's going to fly, but part of this is to, uh, do R&D to reduce magnet costs by a factor of 2 to 4.
That's that's a heavy lift. So, you know, simply using, uh, LHC niobium tie technology to get 43 would be about 20 billion.
In CERN accounting, CERN doesn't count scientists salaries. And we're expensive, sort of.
Um, and then more about the E plus or minus Higgs factory.
And then so in order to coordinate our efforts, they deal we formed this U.S. Higgs Factory Consortium committee.
And we have two, two committees that we work together. Uh, physics experiment and detector PD and accelerator SEC.
And we're trying to get input, sort of in a Snowmass way from the community about what R&D they would like to do for the FCC,
Higgs or, or any Higgs factories. It's general right now.
We're not picking favorites. It could be ILC, it could be CPC or something else.
So this is this is a layout of the org chart, so to speak.
And okay I'm not going to read all this. You guys can go slides if you're interested.
This is all the things we're supposed to be doing. So we have a bunch of proposals. We got quite a few of them.
We have to prioritize them. And then we have just a little bit of money that we can give out to some lucky people.
You know, the first one on the list, I think is $1.3 million or something, and we have 250 K.
It's I just, you know, kind of feel for the D.o.e. program managers because they have the same problem.
They got all these neat proposals, you know, they they don't have enough money to fund them all. So I sympathize with them.
So near-term expectations for FCC, uh, European Steering Group will make a recommendation to CERN Council in early 2026.
All right. So coming up, uh, the US will start to think about contributions to make in 27 and 28.
And this is a panel to consider the scope and level of contributions they'd like us to commit right now.
You know how much you're going to give us. Can't do that. Uh, and so we have to provide input to that.
And then they're going to review the technical and financial feasibility, um, as well as local and federal governments, so on.
And US contributions are always important to what the Europeans do.
They count on us for quite a bit and vice versa. All right.
So this is what came out of Snowmass. I'm just going to recap. So in terms of the muon collider,
P5 strongly endorsed R&D towards a ten TV pardon center mass collider with emphasis on muons R&D focused phased approach.
International collaboration is prioritized.
And just recently, the U.S. Muon Collider Collaboration Charter was adopted in May, and you'll hear more about that in the next week.
And then the National Academies even more recently,
recommended very strongly that the United States should host the world's highest energy elementary particle collider around the middle of the century.
It's not it's not 2075. So it's better. Uh,
this requires the immediate creation of a National Muon Collider research and development program
to enable the construction of a demonstrator of the key new technologies and their integration.
Now, the difference between the National Academy panel and P5 is that P5 was given a budget to stay within the National Academy was not,
so they could suggest whatever the heck they thought was great, which is good.
I mean, they said great things, you know, we're very happy about that. So that's good.
And then even more recently, uh, the European strategy for particle physics had a meeting at the end of June,
all right, a month ago, uh, where they looked at options for the next CERN collider.
So this is supposed to be a community input thing. There were 600 people there.
Uh, what they came up with was that the preferred, uh, you know, plan A is an integrated FCC.
This means E followed by h h.
Plan B was not settled. That's to be determined, but it is not a new on Collider.
So that means the door is open for the US to host an energy frontier machine here.
Okay. That's my take on it. So this is this is sort of with CERN does you know, this is their.
Timeline and what they're going to do, what they've done in the past, how things progress.
And then here's here's sort of the last slide they showed at the symposium.
So here's here's preferred E followed by H.H.
All right. Possibly left three followed by h h maybe e c followed by h h.
Or muon collider. See that's red.
See that red color there. That's not good. Red means everything.
Even in French. It means something. Um, and our linear collider facility that had a lot of attention and, uh, you know,
that could be look, looked on, um, as a possibility for plan B, so it's going to come down to cost.
FCC is not inexpensive. I won't say cheap.
It's not cheap, but it's not expensive. All right. So interesting times ahead for you guys.
Thank you. Yeah.
The blue area. Intermediate. I'm guessing.
Yeah. Um, so you mentioned, as I said before, that, uh, there is technology that has gotten more and more beautiful than it was in the past.
Uh, so what changed? Well, there was an experiment called Nice Muon Ionization Cooling Experiment, and it had a lot of struggles, but it got done.
It was underfunded and all that kind of stuff. But they demonstrated a cooling of single muons, which is nice and cooling.
Sounds pretty easy, but you have to show it, you know, you, uh, and then, uh, there was a, uh, an experiment to, uh,
put RF cavities inside a magnetic field, which they don't like, which the the cooling channel requires RF to be embedded in magnetic fields.
And that was, uh, done at Fermilab, and that had some nice results.
Uh, Dick has helped me. What was the third one? There's another one.
Something, you know, something that made the muon collider more like Tom's house, which you might go over if I found it.
Oh, yes. The target stuff. Yes. Yeah. The, uh, was it Merit?
Merit experiment? Uh, yeah. So I knew there were three.
So that that that helps a lot. I mean, it's still a long way to go, but that's good.
Maybe while people think of questions. Um, I wasn't at Venice.
Could you tell us what people were thinking about plan B? Well, like, there was, uh, quite a bit of, um, emphasis on linear collider.
I think that was the strongest one. Uh, I guess I would have to say Linear Collider was a pretty strong contender.
Could you say more about why? Well, it's less expensive.
Yeah, it's scalable to a point. Yeah, maybe this can be.
It's sort of debatable, right? So you can pretty close plenty.
It doesn't work. It goes to plan B a question to why plan doesn't work.
One one reason could be Chinese.
Uh, you know, CPC will go ahead. Yeah.
If that they do that, then, uh, linear collider, it hits factories.
Uh, not as good as a circular collider. Overall, they can go higher energy.
So here's a factory argument that doesn't work. So if you go with the that the, uh, Linear Collider Plan B because the CPC is being built.
Right. Right, right. But then you lose at the factory argument, but you just have to go to the other one,
and then it'll be more expensive because it's going to be the higher energy needed.
So, um, so it's a science case is something probably it's, uh, you know, arguably not as strong as a Higgs factory with other things.
Yeah, certain there are. So it's not easy. These. I don't think it's easy sell to sell linear Collider if CPC goes ahead.
So I guess the next most popular thing would be going directly to H.H.
And so CERN is actually working pretty hard now to build, uh, 14 Tesla magnets for an H.
Yeah, I have a question that's a little bit less technical.
Obviously, we just broke down a bunch of really great ideas moving forward with any of these.
It's a global effort. You've discussed that. We all know that engineers are hard headed.
We all love our idea. You've talked about your idea that you love the muon collider.
People might disagree. So as a room of a bunch of super early career engineers, what advice are I guess?
What have you learned from the committees that you sit on and how to communicate more effectively?
How to not get like too heated about your arguments? How do you communicate more effectively as an engineer, I guess?
Well, I think I think you have to stick to the technology. It's even if it's technology, I mean, there is an answer.
There is somewhere there's an answer, right? We know there's a truth somewhere, and we have to find it in everybody.
If they're looking for that, they can be more open minded.
But it's not unusual for somebody to get wedded to some great AI, you know, an idea they think is great, and that's okay too.
But then. It takes a lot of patience, a lot of discussion, open discussion.
And I think one of the things that we have to do going forward is we have to be
honest about what the muon collider will require and what it will take to do it.
There's been too much low balling in the international community, and part of it is just because we don't know,
you know, what it's going to take because we haven't done it before and funding agencies don't understand that.
So maybe communicating more and they're becoming more and more risk averse which makes it harder for us.
So what do you do? Do you tell them, you know, it's going to cost this much, and then you add 50% to it just to cover yourself.
And they say that's too expensive. But what happens is you back to asking, I think we could do it for this or that, you know, and then you don't.
And that's not good. Yeah. I have a question about temperature.
Yeah. Um, when the Tevatron was released, um, at what stage was it back in development?
Well, that's still beyond my time a little bit, but, um.
Um, so I was a grad student during that time, but, um, they were not.
They invented a lot of things. All right, the the SK magnets and the LHC magnets look a lot like the Tevatron magnets.
Um, this collaring scheme, we put collars on them, you squeeze the coils and you put keys in the hold it.
That's still used for everything. In fact, I have a slide that shows the non evolution of superconducting magnets.
They all look alike all the way up. You know where they're made in the Soviet Union or they're made in Japan or anywhere else.
Um but yeah it was uh, it was not that mature.
And we had to develop the, the superconductor as well.
So there was no room titanium. It wasn't great, but the project itself was small enough that the government could get their hands around.
It had enough money that they could influence the alloy producers and develop the alloy, the IBM titanium alloy, um, and help the wire manufacturers.
And we had a, uh, we had a group the first the first group I joined when I got into the magnet business,
I was an experimentalist before I got dragged into magnets. No regrets, sir.
Um, it's called the low temperature Superconductor workshop.
They had industry people, university and laboratory people all sharing information about how to develop the conductor.
And that was a big feat because, you know, the companies don't like to share the proprietary information.
So we had a way of doing that. And this continues to this day.
We still still have that workshop. Now, it's not not niobium titanium anymore.
It's 19 through ten. And um, but that then launched the MRI business.
They came in and said, well, look at this. This is a great conductor. And they took off.
And now we're we're a blip, you know, in that market. And so that's one of those.
So during the SC we had no problem uh getting conductor.
We just ordered and showed up. But we also developed it further.
So we, we almost uh well see Tevatron was 1800 amps per square millimeter current density.
And the SC and LHC were 2800 amps or a millimeter.
So significant improvement. But you already had this big industry.
You could just kind of nudge them in your direction to try this, try that, and they're all ready to go.
And there was a big market. So you know they're all in on that.
So that's that's another reason that I think not only in 310 is it's going to be tough to.
Get the cost down. I'm curious, uh, you mentioned that historically, the European strategy has always proceeded Snowmass and B5,
but they rushed this European strategy, and now it kind of looks like it's after Snowmass and B5.
Do you think that's going to stay that way? I have I had I, I don't know.
I think well this is going to be big for them right.
I mean they're going to if they make a decision on, say, FCC integrated, that's going to carry them for a long, long time.
So, uh, yes, it's ah, it's yeah.
They may just say, okay, we're done. But, uh, you know, I doubt that, but, uh, yeah, that's that's an interesting point.
Yeah. I think part of it is Fabiola, you know, she is, uh, she's coming to the end of her term,
and she wants to leave her legacy, and she's been pushing it very hard.
So I think she has a lot to do with that. Yeah.
Yeah. About what kind of work? I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm really sorry.
No, no. It's okay. Uh, so someone in the, uh.
In the vein of the question about engineers, you mentioned a little bit about the costs of the materials that we're using.
How important do you think, uh, it is that they.
Can they work on those considerations before we begin designing, uh, new schemes for the muon collider?
And how do we go about doing that? If that is, you're talking about the cost, uh, the cost and availability of materials.
Well, the availability is, is, uh, so this fusion thing is a two edged sword because one hand,
they're driving the cost down, but they're eating up all the conductor.
And so it's a little more difficult to get. Now I tell my I tell my guys, look, don't worry about the cost.
I mean, we of course we worry about it. We we by many kilometers if we can afford it.
But show me how to build a magnet first.
Right? Because if you can build a magnet, then you're going to encourage, um, industry to pick up that technology.
And these can be used for a lot of things. Are people trying to build, uh, superconducting motors and generators, um, you know,
more portable MRI that can be deployed, you know, in third world countries,
um, operating at higher temperatures, because Repco can operate at 20 Kelvin, it's got half the current density or so, but it can operate there.
So it opens up other possibilities in different industry that would help the whole thing grow.
And so that's another part of what we can do is demonstrate that this is feasible.
We can build a magnet out of it. Accelerator magnet. Uh, Dan's lab can build more NMR magnets and, you know, that kind of stuff.
So it's, uh, there's an ecosystem there that we can contribute to.
So I say that's what we need to do is go for it. Okay.
Um, actually, I'm gonna first follow up this question.
I was wondering, in that case, how do you encourage industry to kind of develop these new technologies in the first place?
I mean, there must be some incentive to like an MRI thing, for example.
That's I'm assuming and I don't know if this is true, but I'm assuming the MRI realization was later when this technology was developed.
And so it takes a bit of convincing, I would assume, but I don't know how that would be.
It takes a lot of convincing. I'm not sure we can even convince them.
We have to show them, and they have to realize that the industry is pretty risk averse.
You know, I know in cases in other technologies like battery technology,
our lab director at Berkeley was trying to get Elon Musk to change his battery technology says, no, we're fine.
We're making batteries now. We're selling cars, we're making money. And the story.
So it's really hard.
Um, on a smaller scale, we can talk, you know, vendors into doing things they haven't done before, and sometimes that's not very successful for them.
For instance, uh, Northrop Grumman built the magnets for Rick at Brookhaven, and, uh, Brookhaven gave him a lot.
They gave him tooling to give him the the technology and all that kind of stuff.
And they built magnets for Rick. They're very successful, and they're not doing it anymore.
So, you know, dangling money in front of them, um, is a good way to do it.
I remember the first FCC meeting, and in Washington, DC, we invited a bunch of conductor manufacturers,
and they basically said, show us the money and we'll figure it out, okay.
But it's really hard to you know, CERN is trying to nurture various companies around the world to develop new miter ten to the level that that um,
Bruker OSD, the company that we use, has achieved.
And, uh, you know, how how long can you keep pouring money into those companies and interest them?
You know, and if you're not buying a large quantities of this stuff, that's very difficult.
Um, I guess, sorry, just one last I guess question that I have is, uh, um,
I was kind of wondering about kind of CERN stance on this because from what I understand,
it seems like they're not at all prioritizing the on Collider and not thinking of it as the next option, pretty much.
But at the same time, the Ecmc collaboration seems to be or at least from what I understand, seems to be funded by CERN also.
So what's that kind of like stance? Well, as we were talking about that today.
Yeah. What's what's going to happen to Ecmc. Now they have they have money.
They've been given money. Uh, five years worth I think. And um, what happens when that money runs out, you know, how do they balance,
you know, supporting the FCC, doing muon collider R&D when it's not mainstream?
That's something we have to figure out or we have to find out from them. But yeah, we we really want them to be in the game.
We need them to be in the game. Thank you.
I have a question. But also with the IMC hat. Uh, we got an extra 1.8 million in the last MTP.
Uh, medium term plan. So currently it's going up. Yeah.
We'll see how next management goes. Uh, the question I have as a human being at the start, you mentioned, uh, the gap and wanting to reduce the gap.
Uh, and if you think about all of the accelerators from 6070s, 1890s, early noughties,
there was an accelerator, a big one, like every ten years, even every five years.
Oh, we already too late to patch this growing gap.
And is there anything we can do other than schools like this to try and keep this knowledge?
As we see the the people who have permanent contracts in the LHC are starting to retire.
Like, yeah, we do know that that's another problem.
But, you know, I had some students come up to me, um, at the community meeting, uh, Snowmass meeting,
and they said, we just want to see an energy frontier machine built in our lifetime.
Any of you guys me? Might have been one of you guys. Um.
And, uh. Yeah, that's that's a good question.
I said, well, you know, R&D is a lot of fun. And so if we have R&D funds, we can we can keep that knowledge going.
But yeah, we there's a bit of an urgency. I think there are very few people that were around that actually worked on map.
And, uh, you know, I've seen people make mistakes that they shouldn't have because they didn't know what they've done in the past.
You know, simple things. That's the problem. The time frame is a little bit long.
Doesn't match the human lifespan very well. Right. Starting to get a little difficult even with lights as well.
Yes. Yes. Right. New demonstrator doesn't really.
Well, if you're a student on that. On an experiment, it's kind of tough.
Yeah.
I mean, now with the big collider experiments, you you you design it or you build it or you take data or, you know, but you don't do the whole thing.
When I was a grad student, we did we got to do everything right, and which was nice, but it wasn't.
You know, I didn't have 2000 collaborators either. Um.
So it seems like there's a sense that at least we'll find out after the European strategy update of CERN.
Is that interested in the muon collider?
But it doesn't seem like very, um, but a lot of the proposals or most of the proposals for, uh, the cooling demonstrator are all sited at CERN.
Is that fine? I have it, it would be fine with us.
I mean, we're not, you know, we're not that parochial. Of course we would like to do it, but we want somebody to do it.
And CERN doesn't have enough. CERN and the Europeans don't have enough manpower on it now, and we won't have either.
So it's to be a combination of both groups somehow to pull this thing off.
It's it's not it's not inexpensive and it's not easy. We'll go to Daniel and then Caroline.
Sorry. Uh, this is a question that's been in the back of my mind for a couple of months.
Um, the funding situation in the US has obviously changed recently.
Um, and I noticed a lot of your slides were made.
Perhaps, uh, before the funding situation has changed. How would that affect timelines?
That's a good question. Uh, I guess not good.
Uh, you know, um, D.o.e. has their priorities.
You know, like I said, we have to build LBO Neptune. We have EIC.
That's billions of dollars worth of work to do, and those have to be successful.
And it's interesting work. All right.
Um, it would be a good opportunity for young people to get involved in a machine that's actually has to be built because you can do R&D forever.
But the day you decide, oh, we're going to build a machine with this technology, you're only halfway there.
It's a lot harder. You're going to put this magnet in a machine. You're going to put this RF cavity in a machine.
You got to take care of things you never had to worry about before. And so getting that kind of experience, you know what works?
What doesn't work when things break, what do you do is really good.
So the more that you can get and it's interesting, let me tell you, it's interesting, um, work to do.
So there are a lot of opportunities. There are things that are being funded.
It's just not certain things right now. But if you can learn and, um, there's lots of opportunities to do that.
And, uh, I think that's the thing to do. So I think we see this in experiment a lot already, where the detector R&D, for example, can be a lot of fun.
You learn a lot about detector design. You, you know, tinker in your lab, but it's, you know, designing a detector in a vacuum.
And the best thing you can do about actually learning how to build a detector is to work on one of the C upgrades.
So if you want to build the next accelerator and in the US, the next big projects are opening up Dune and EIC.
Are there synergy? Are there really nice synergies with muon collider R&D that some of these students could take part in on those upcoming projects?
Oh yeah, I think so. I think there's a lot of, um, a lot of synergy, um, in these things.
Well, yeah, I see, for instance, um, the IRS are going to be somewhat similar for the FCC.
Um, that doesn't mean a lot of people get to work on it. But, um, you know,
we're looking we're looking for various synergies in our R&D programs to how do we how do we steer our roadmap to be prepared for that?
Because we have some latitude in what we can do. So we look for things that are relevant for, for future machines.
Just developing, uh, HDS, for instance, would be a very useful thing to do because we don't know much about it.
The failure rate is pretty high for magnets. And, um, we need to understand what's.
Well, part of the problem is these new manufacturers come along and everybody's making something just a little bit different.
So, you know, how do you characterize it?
How do you keep keep up with these guys to know whether it's your magnet design that was bad or was a conductor that had some problem or.
Yeah, you just kind of build a lot of things, break a lot of things to.
Okay. Um, I would also like to ask a question about the demonstrator.
Um, aside from, of course, demonstrating cooling,
what do you think the most important things we could do at the demonstrator would be to make the case for the full collider the most compelling.
That's another thing we talked about today, you know, how do you define how do you define what the goal is?
And is it good enough, you know, is it going to convince people?
Uh, that's a good question. How much cooling do you need to get for a single cell?
How much can you afford to do?
But, you know, if you're, uh, if you're an engineer, you're going to look at these things and say, well, how are we going to hold this together?
You know, stuff like that? And, you know, so we need to break it down into, into, you know, what it is that we need to demonstrate.
You know, you say, oh, yeah, you need to demonstrate cooling. Well, that's only at the beginning.
You got to have it. You got to have something sitting there to put muons through.
Right. And that's got to work.
So this, you know, RF and magnetic fields, um, how do you get just how do you get all the piping and power into this thing in a compact way?
And I don't think people have not, uh, looked at that in detail.
And so a lot of opportunities there.
And by the way, if you if somebody tells you, oh, this is all done, just look underneath a little bit and you find out who you know.
No, there's a lot more work to do. You can always find something that needs to be done.
Thank you. You have a funding question?
Um, as you know, it's going away.
If it's there, not all always go away, but there's a lack of funding if it comes from the government at this point.
Um, is there any talk any like, kind of like general consensus of trying to find a way to get private investors involved,
uh, like Elon Musk or like Lex Luther, you know, somebody with a lot of money.
Well, you know, um, CERN is trying that. So they've had they've had various high level visitors come.
It's not easy for us to do in the US. Um, we're not supposed to take private money.
We can't take it directly. But wouldn't that be nice if somebody decided to build the muon collider with their name on it?
But they'd they'd have to hire all of us. Youngkin. You might say something about that.
I mean, it's not it's not a straightforward thing to do. What you said about your situation.
You're absolutely correct.
I may say in a different way right now, the film let the project we have the accelerator and beamline and neutrino done for doing.
That's a $5 billion project. So we are already doing $5 billion project, which is of course new Collider is what Steve, how much is it?
You're going to quote me. What did I just say about this.
So so I'm saying that it's it's of course much more expensive than 5 billion.
But it's not. Just think about it.
We we are capable if we are capable of doing four, nine, 5 billion actually 5 billion plus 1.1 billion in kind contribution.
So it's more than 6 billion total. So we already but delivering uh, you know, building really large scale uh, project.
So I think it's not that far I mean, of course of for muon collider,
we hope that we have a more international in-kind contribution than the current project.
So if with the many countries together, I think we should be able to do it.
Uh, so my question is, uh, I just wanted to ask you this.
Just answer this. Like, from your point of view, why is all this important?
Like, why is being colliders important just as it like from your point of view,
just in the for the future, like you are trying to encourage other people to get into this.
What did you tell to them that why are we being.
Why do we have to bring more more people? Why?
What is this or why this is important thing? But yeah, well, you know.
So once in a while I sit by somebody on the plane, ask me what I do, you know, and I try to tell them and I,
I'm trying to get my speech down to about 15 seconds before their eyes roll back in their head, and it's all over me.
But, um, you know, I think it's an individual thing, but I think my point of view is that humanity is watching this out of the corner of their eye.
They may not be completely, you know, directly involved in this stuff,
but trying to understand the universe, what its nature is, what how do we get here?
Where are we going? These things. I mean, it's just it's mind boggling, right?
But I think I think people see that.
They see progress. They see discoveries. They may not understand it.
Uh, my son in law will send me a text. Oh, did you hear about this? Two colliding black holes or something like that?
Okay, so he, you know, he's he's he's excited about this stuff, you know, and, uh, but he's not he's not in the field at all.
But people, I think it's part of what we have to do is as humans to understand.
Yeah. You know, a million years ago, I was standing around looking, looking at the stars.
Wonder what the heck that was. We came up with some goofy ideas, but, you know, maybe we still have goofy ideas, right?
We used to believe there was a thing called the ether. That light wave then.
But. Okay, that's. That's not right. So, um, I don't know.
I think it's an individual thing if you're really into this thing. Um, I don't have to ask my fifth grade self why I wanted to be a physicist.
I don't know. Then why do you think that having a Mayan collider is important?
Well, I mean, Collider, I think has a lot of physics potential, for one thing. And I always like the technology.
Right. Because I'm it took me a whole career to figure it out.
But I am a technologist at heart, and I like the technology.
And I think that every machine we build should have, you know, some incremental,
not maybe not small increment, but an increment of of progress in terms of technology.
And there are a lot of we don't try to do this, but there are spinoffs.
It just happened to happen. We can't plan it. We don't plan it.
But it's that's part of it. And it's just really, really cool, you know?
Yeah. One, one something that Steve mentioned.
Uh, this capabilities, uh, you don't know exactly what you're going to discover.
Right. So it actually Nobel Prize winner. Same thing.
He made the chart of all the accelerators, uh, from many, many decades.
And why there's a science justification is one column.
What they ended up discovering another column.
There's none. None of them matter. Maybe the right series is something different.
Of course they. We expected and wanted to find the Higgs. And so that happened.
But most of accelerators in the past you built you disappeared that the, you know, most, uh,
frontier machine and capabilities and you end up discovering some totally new search or it's a justification,
and then you end up discovering a very different.
I think it's worth looking at it. I look for that plot.
It's very interesting. Yeah, that's that's very true. And, you know, Steve, Steve Chew was a Nobel Prize winner.
He was my boss at Berkeley for a while. And, uh, he said it's just about looking under different rocks.
You pick up that rock and look under you look up, look under that rock, and then you you don't know what you're going to find, you know?
So I, I think that's a fantastic question.
I think everybody who's attending the school as a quote unquote student should try and have their own answer to that question by the end of this week.
Um, be able to formulate it in your own words, because I have lots of opinions.
Other organizers have lots of opinions. We were very happy to talk to you about it, but you should be able to formulate it in your own words.
So not just like, why is a collider exciting? Why is a muon collider exciting?
What aspect of getting there is exciting? All of these kinds of things is a fantastic question.
And cool. Um, yeah. Thanks for this. Uh, really nice talk.
You mentioned you alluded to, uh, kind of the, uh, some of the issues with the ILC and why that hasn't been built yet.
And from your experience, uh, you discussing these kinds of jumps in technology,
you kind of gave me this idea for this question, like, what have past projects that haven't?
A lot of the times we think and we about and we've learned about a lot of the successful projects which really require 1,000,001 things to go right.
What can we learn from some of these projects, uh, that haven't gone right where we, you know, can do better?
Both the ILC, the C are kind of the prime examples, but in your experience I'm sure there's been other projects.
So I think yeah. Well, I think one of the big obstacles, of course is selling it to the general public, selling it to the funding agencies.
And then some of the ones I've seen go wrong is where the costs just kept growing and growing and growing.
And, you know, the schedules got longer and longer and people get impatient and they start to question, you know, why you're doing this?
Um, but part of that is, is our, our fault in some sense.
We don't do enough outreach, you know,
talking to people about why we do what we do and why it's important what you guys are going to know by the end of the week.
Um, so. I don't know, it's one of those intangible things to, to get people excited and, you know, get get government excited about doing something.
It's it's something it just it happens somehow. And the scale was a big deal.
And it was, uh, had the tunnel almost dug and.
Well, okay. So the magnets were not working well at the beginning.
And then the accelerator physicists got nervous because the bore wasn't big enough.
So we changed the design and gave them a bigger bore. And the magnets worked very, very well.
And that raised the costs and so on, and then politics and needed the money for something else.
And, and, you know, that kind of thing.
So I think you have to you have to come up with a good plan, you have to explain it and then you have to execute it properly.
And, you know, physicists aren't the best managers, uh, sometimes.
But, you know, and I know there's there's books on why the SSC failed, which is, you know,
still hurts me a little bit, but, um, I had fun doing it, you know, I don't regret it at all.
I would do it all over again, because just in that moment, it was fun doing it.
I didn't want to move to Texas. Okay. Sorry if anybody's from Texas.
But, uh, I was happy here, so, uh. Yeah, I know that's a tough one to answer.
Thanks. Yeah. Thank you.
Lovely talk. Um, I was kind of curious.
We're talking a lot about advocacy and just getting people excited about the muon collider.
When I consider, like, you know, we've got a lot of people in this room,
and I guess each can kind of make their own impact within their local communities about just kind of getting people excited.
That's like when I like, explain to my parents, you know, why I'm here and what a muon, what even a muon is.
Why? Why a muon collider is exciting.
I'm curious if you have insight into even just like the kind of local impact that one can make, because then once you get everyone associated excited,
you know, that's a lot more people who can show up and, you know, demonstrate their support for the system.
Yeah, I think it's not hard. Um, when I was I was here at Fermilab first I went to Berkeley and came back here.
But the first time I was here, I would go around to, uh, some community meetings in the area,
give a little talks on particle physics and people, people love it, right?
They're really interested. Once you, once you have the audience is semi captured, you know, and they don't have anything else to do there.
They they're all ears. You know, it's it's great.
And then they'll, they'll really get into it. They'll ask a lot of great questions and so on.
And for a while I was writing, uh, these, uh, articles for the local paper, which had about 70,000 distribution or something.
And I would, you know, trying to ease into certain topics like the scientific method, like, you know, it's not just what somebody thinks should be.
It's like there's a process here and we this is how we do it and so on, so forth.
And then, you know, just, uh, how, um, how basic physics can lead to different technologies like, uh, Bluetooth, you know,
the astrophysicists in Australia, um, MRI, all these, uh, GPS and how that's relativity, you know, all this kind of stuff.
So, you know, you just you try to do that.
And then. And I did this for about nine months, and I got a call from the editor and she basically said, oh, can you dumb it down a little bit?
Uh, I thought, I thought I was doing a pretty good job.
And I said, well, you know, I'm kind of busy right now, and and it's, uh, it's really hard to do.
You know, I'm not really good at that. And I think we all suffer from that.
At least some, you know, because you're so familiar with it.
But, uh, and I also taught classes at, uh, Cod intro, intro physics classes, you know, and 90% of the students are super interested in physics.
The other 10% were just there because they they wanted to be a radiologist or something.
But, um, which is good. But, uh, you know, things like that you can do, you know, that's fun.
Yeah, yeah, I have a question kind of along the same lines. Um, I guess two questions.
One being should we be self organizing now to make those outreach things happen?
Should we be doing something kind of more in the NASA style with their flagship missions,
where we should be really going to the communities and trying to convince them,
like tell them why this is a compelling story, why they should be publicly supporting this project.
And then the other thing we've talked about a lot today is excitement. Have there been any high up discussions at, like,
the CERN facility about how it's early career scientists that are going to be carrying on the next collider?
And there may be more excitement for, let's say, the muon collider versus FCC.
Has that been taken into account? Well, I don't know about that now.
CERN does a very good job of outreach locally, and they have a lot of a lot of things going on.
And if you guys remember some years ago, somebody did this, uh, LHC wrap or something and they put it on YouTube.
It was really awesome. I mean, if you guys get into social media, TikTok, all that kind of stuff, I mean,
figure out a way to communicate then, you know, in 15 or 30s what fun this is.
That would be great. Oh, okay. Uh, there was a paper, uh, poll of, uh, thousand high energy physicists.
Uh, the muon collider was high, higher than it was for the member states, but it wasn't more than like circular plus u minus.
There was also a US early career, and. But I don't know how widely that was circulated.
Uh, and also, even though there are hep ECL groups, there's actually no accelerator, uh, early career group.
So a guy is starting one. Uh, and I'll share it around when it's ready.
That'd be great. Yeah. I think something to keep in mind about the European Early Career Report is the way the
questions are phrased is what is your preferred option for the next machine for CERN?
And so when you're talking about options which are not technically mature, it's tough to make comparisons.
So I think that's something to keep in mind. Um, and then I think we have a question from Kyle and then.
Uh, um, so I just want to put in a quick plug that we are working on some social media stuff with the Ecmc study.
I'm, uh, specifically working with Christiane.
Uh, they on doing a video. I've started reaching out to some people who,
if anyone is interested in filming a quick 90s or so explainer video about what the research is for the Muon Collider.
Uh, you can come see me afterwards or shoot me an email or something, right?
Okay. Um, so you mentioned that the consensus for the future colliders at CERN were to build FCC first and then FCC.
H.H. Um, that would be in the new tunnel for FCC or within the existing tunnel for a new tunnel in the new tunnel.
Yeah. So they would start to dig the new tunnel soon.
And, uh, France and Switzerland are going according to Fabiola,
and they're going to forward fund the money to do that, because locally they get like a 5 to 1 return on investment.
Right. Because it supports industry. And so, you know, the money, the money that they give to high energy physics goes right back out to industry.
And so it's not it's just it's passed through in some sense.
And certain of course makes a big deal in that because the member states contribute according to their GDP and they expect to get back,
you know, more or less that amount in contracts with industry in their countries.
Right. So, um, I'm just a little I was a little confused as to why LEP three is a proposal at all,
because I'm not really sure what the physics cases for building the collider in the existing tunnel,
since they already pushed it pretty high to the limit of yeah, you can do in that tunnel.
It's less expensive and they could do the Higgs.
And if they're just just interested in the Higgs, they can do the Higgs.
Sometimes you take what you get and do with do with it what you can.
So. Hey, uh, this is a funding question.
So you talked a lot about the Snowmass process and being one of the conveners for the accelerators.
Um, so as an early career member, this was like the first Snowmass that I kind of actually followed as a, uh, you know, senior graduate student.
And I, it's been, you know, couple of years right now already since the report came out.
Yeah. 26 and then with a more recent report with the National Academies, all of that.
And I have, I guess, um, I haven't seen the response from the funding agencies.
Yeah. You know, the NSF D.o.e. And I guess I'm wondering, just like from your experience, having seen this process over many years, um,
have the other or the other Snowmass is different in that how much a push for certain,
um, you know, projects and topics and how quickly the funding agencies responded.
I'm just curious as to how the past sometimes processes.
And the current one, uh, is comparing. You're testing my memory.
Um, I don't know. I think the ILC took off pretty, pretty quickly after after that one.
It depends on what state um, things are at the time.
You know, how committed they are to other things. Right now, John Key said, you know, we're, you know, 5 billion in on these big projects.
So it's hard to squeeze in something else in a budget scenario that we have right now.
So it takes a while and they can't turn on a dime either. They can't just I mean there's a lot of inertia in the system.
You can't just cancel a program because it put people out of work and so on.
So you have to kind of move into this new thing and depending on how different it might be, it might take longer.
Um, but if you're doing, you know, say you're doing work on, uh, superconducting RF and,
you know, you just have another application for that's easy, right?
And you can just start focusing on that. So for example, in the magnet development program where we're collaborating with Brookhaven,
uh, the Mag Lab in Florida and uh, Berkeley, um, we added, uh, solenoids to our portfolio.
So that's something that we say, okay, if you want to put forward a proposal to the collaboration,
then, you know, we might entertain that if we have the money. So we're expanding to accommodate and align with what we see to be the future.
So that takes a while. That's not going to happen overnight either.
And you know, I don't expect, you know, with with all these things on the table that doe we can just say, okay,
we're going to, you know, but a lot of money into muon collider R&D when we haven't finished the projects we're working on.
So that's going to take a long time. So we're promised money what, 2 or 3 years.
And I keep in mind what you said and also the Snowmass is enough.
We want that as a community. And P5 is a next level.
Yeah. In the Netherlands, um, make priorities based on first scenario.
But the P5 is the highest priority to completing high ministry upgrade.
And then at the do and you to do that under construction right now, would it take another five years, five six years to complete those projects?
All of them are quite expensive. So, uh, think the best way by not disguising and, um, what you do right now.
But overall, just make sure that's right.
Can I really put, uh, the R&D effort.
But again, Snowmass and P5 will send.
Competing in construction project.
So that's nice. So we are following those conditions, because if you have a bigger budget, that would solve a lot of it would.
Yes. Okay. Thank you. So in the United States,
Fermilab supposed to be one of the open labs that the public can interact with and engage with science publicly in recent years.
It's kind of closed down a bit, but, uh, if the muon collider is to be built in the United States, is there any like,
plans or discussion about how open that facility should be to the public and how, uh, accessible it should be for public outreach?
I think that's above my pay grade. I have no problem with that.
This is the only person who is right or facilities or the the collaborators can use.
I mean, do not because those facilities are not public at the open to public.
Uh, and I think you are talking about public access is, uh, part of a lab, which anybody with a driver's license,
they can go in that kind of public is what you're talking about in terms of, uh, experiments and accelerators.
If you are collaborators, uh, you should be able to use even now and in future.
Of course. Okay.
So thank you very much Steve. That was a fantastic kickoff.
Thank you. So we're we're going to come back tomorrow.
There's breakfast at 8 a.m. and CPK two a service.
If you haven't had a chance to formally check in and get a welcome packet, please do so tomorrow and do it before 855 so that there's not a big line.
Um, there will be, um, some breakfast and coffee there for you guys to grab.
Um, and then we're going to kick off at 9 a.m. sharp in here with the lectures, and we'll have a more like,
formal introduction with all of the logistical information you need for the rest of the week and stuff like that.
Um, thanks so much for coming in on a Sunday. We really appreciate it.
Thank you.
