# Welcome, Karri DiPetrillo / Introduction to Accelerator Physics of Colliders, Vladimir Shiltsev

Okay. Welcome. Um, it's 9:00, so we're going to get started.
I have some intro slides with logistical information about how the meeting is.
The school is going to go. Um, so let's try and get through them quickly so you can get to the actual content.
Um, okay. So what is sort of the philosophy in mind behind why we're having the school and what the goals are for the week?
Um, the goal for at least from the perspective of Usmca in the organizers, is to kickstart us.
We want Collider Accelerator R&D efforts.
And as a part of that, we know that the accelerator challenges associated with the muon collider are some of the most interesting challenges,
uh, that we'll have to address. Um, but we know we need to strengthen the US accelerator workforce.
So a big goal is to bridge the traditional gap between, um, collider disciplines.
So experiment accelerator in theory. Um, so that's a big part of our goal this week.
So making friends across fields, um, and, uh, learning new, new things and different topics.
Um, with that in mind, the goal is to introduce students or attendees to key accelerator concepts, the main challenges of a muon collider.
Um, and give you a taste of the current status of those technical challenges.
Um, and we also want to, you know, build up the community and want you to to meet more people in it.
Um, the school is modeled after US particle accelerator schools.
Um, where there are lectures, uh, during the day.
Plenty of break time, plenty of time for discussion, followed by daily homework sessions.
Um, so the idea is that important concepts will be delivered or message to you during those lectures.
Um, and the homework sessions and problem sets will reinforce, um, your learning of those concepts.
And it doesn't rely heavily on textbooks. It's mainly what's transmitted through slides and through from the instructors.
We strongly encourage active participation. There are a lot of great questions last night.
Let's keep that up. Um, keep asking questions during lectures, after lectures.
Um, and keep discussions going through the coffee breaks and meals.
Um, so who are we?
We have 75 students, and I have the breakdown by career, stage and experiment.
We asked, do this as part of the registration form. Um, and I think it's really fantastic.
We've got, you know, majority students, a good number of undergraduates as well.
Um, but also a number of postdocs, professors who are attending as students, um,
and even master's students, the people who are full time research associates.
Um, in terms of people where they come from in their primary discipline.
Uh, we're about half experiment. So this should be a really great way to build up that accelerator workforce.
Um, a little over a quarter accelerator. And a good number of theorists as well.
So we should have some good mixing and cross-fertilization of ideas. Um, and we have 13 expert instructors from across accelerator physics.
Um, they're all fantastic. Uh, yesterday we had a lecture from Steve Gourlay, um, who we didn't give a proper introduction to.
Um, but he's fantastic. And, um, Vladimir is going to kick us off today.
Um, and and you'll see, obviously, the rest of these faces throughout the week.
So keep an eye out for these people. Um, everything you need to know about the school.
Um, should be on the indico.
Um, the welcome packet we have, uh, I think, you know, the schedule is a little bit, uh, there's a mistake in the schedule.
So basically, just refer to the Indigo for the latest schedule and any other information you might need.
We'll keep that, um, as updated as possible. We have three very full days of classes, going from 839 to sometimes 839.
Um, there's a lot of material to cover during those days, so stay rested, stay hydrated.
Um, stand up and stretch when you need to. Um, do your best to pay attention and be, you know, polite, uh, engaged, active, etc.
Um, if you have any questions, ask the registration desk, especially if they're logistical.
Um, if you have questions about the physics or the material, we suggest joining the USBc slack.
We have a USBc 2025 channel. Um, where you guys can talk to each other, um, ask questions and whatnot.
And if anything is not addressed through those two channels, then you can send an email here.
Um, and we'll do our best to address it as soon as possible. Okay.
So where are the school take place? Um, obviously in this building.
Christian Physics teaching center. The address is here. Um, this is mostly where we're going to have lectures, coffee breaks, breakfast, lunch, etc.
Um, and then we're going to use the Michelson Center for physics.
It's about a five minute walk away. Um, this is where the Enrico.
Gil Fermi Institute, where the particle physicists offices and labs typically are.
Um, make sure to use the south entrance. The north entrance is usually card access only, um, and the doors will lock at 8 p.m.,
so everybody should make sure to get inside for any sort of last minute homework or anything like that around 8 p.m., or ask a U.
Chicago student to let you in. Um, and you can do that via the SoC.
Um, okay. So the progression of topics today we're going to focus on an introduction to accelerator physics.
Um Tuesday transitions to machine design where the idea is to walk through each subsystem of the muon collider in detail.
Um, that's going to continue through on Wednesday, um, with some special topics associated with muon collider technology.
So the cooling magnets, RF cavities, etc. Um, the lectures will always take place in this room.
Um, and it's the homework sessions that will take place in Michelson Center for physics.
Um, this is the time slots for those homeworks is also on the Indico agenda.
And the idea behind the homework sessions is we're going to divide all of the attendees up into groups.
You can find a link to those group assignments in room agendas here.
Um, we tried to have a good mix of career stages and area of expertise in those groups with at least one quote unquote,
accelerator expert, um, per group.
Um, and at least for today, each we have six groups and they're each going to be paired into two at the end of the homework sessions.
And they'll present solutions to each other. So it's like peer learning kind of thing.
Um, in terms of meals, we're providing breakfast coffee and box lunches.
Um, this is where you to check in. Um, and breakfast was today.
Um, you're on your own to find dinner. Uh, we've given everybody $75 gift cards.
Um, there's a list of nearby restaurants, sort of vaguely separated by walking distance.
Um, so you can, you know, prioritize depending on how long we have for dinner.
Um, and we really strongly recommend getting lunch with, with the other attendees and talking about, uh, what you've learned that day.
Um, okay. And then in terms of photos, we're going to have a workshop photo today just before.
So just after the morning session, but before lunch, um,
we're going to exit through the south side of the building and take a photo somewhere, either on the steps or nearby.
Um, we're also going to have a number of people taking photos throughout the entire week.
If you have any issues with that, if you don't want to be pictured or want your photo posted somewhere,
please just let one of the organizers know and we'll note that down.
Um, Kyle is organizing some IMC videos he's waving right now.
Um, so if you're interested in doing one, please, uh, reach out to him.
I think I think the link here is to your email, your Stonybrook email.
Um, and then, um, sort of if you have if you feel so inclined, you guys can post, um,
photos or anything about your experience, um, with the hashtag, why am you in clutter?
Uh, this is the detailed agenda for today.
I'm not going to go through it in detail, but like I said, the general concept is lectures during the day, homework sessions in the afternoon dinner.
And then we'll have a special lecture from Taylor today on the muon Collider machine overview.
Um, and then big thank you to people who who made this possible.
So, um, the staff here at Chicago are fantastic and have saved my butt quite a bit in planning this.
Um, in particular Mary and Ramona. You'll see them around and there.
If you have logistical questions, please don't hesitate to ask them.
Um, and then we also want to say thank you to the people who made this financially possible.
Um, so we had a lot of donations, um, which enabled support for many, many of the attendees lodging throughout the entire week.
Um, and everybody's meals. So the idea here was to try and make this as accessible as possible to all students who are interested.
Um, and then a final reminder, we do have a code of conduct.
I don't think that's going to be a problem, but, um, it's on the indico if you have any questions about it.
And thank you very much for coming. Um, we really hope you enjoy the week.
And it's very productive. Um, and so let's kick it off with Vladimir.
Does anybody have any questions about the organization of a school or logistics or
any other question related to what's going to happen during the next three days?
Feel free to ask. Yep.
Uh, where can we find the link for the groups? It's on the indigo.
So these photos are on. Um.
I don't see any other questions, so maybe we proceed. Okay.
Can I start? Yes. Okay. So welcome to Chicago.
Uh, we start our school. School is short, so.
And the first day will be about the basics of accelerators and colliders.
So it. And myself. Uh, Jeff Eldridge.
Jeff, wave your hand sitting here and Ben Simmons.
Uh, three of us will be kind of coordinating you this this day today.
Monday. Uh, as Cory said, uh, we have not only lectures, but also, uh, homework.
Uh, and you will be broken into groups, uh, and, uh, to, to solve homeworks.
You will be given some time to solve the homework.
But even more important, probably more useful, will be the time when we discuss your solutions, even if solutions will not be complete.
So we'll have opportunity to talk about what what what is the physics.
What what's happening in this homework problems. Uh, it probably will be a lot of fun there.
So we can we we will focus mostly on this discussion part, uh, when it comes to homework.
And again, me, Jeff and Ben will be helping you with homework, see and discussion and will be discussion afterwards.
Okay. So, uh, today I start lecture one about just what accelerators are, access technologies are and what's the history of, uh, colliders.
What's the what is the luminosity and concepts related to colliders?
Uh, myself, I'm, uh, Vladimir Schultz of I'm, uh, professor at Northern Illinois University.
In the past, I, uh, worked on 35 accelerator projects.
Seven of them were successful. I built four accelerators.
I was head of the Tevatron for many years, and for many years I was director of the physics center.
And, uh, since about like 5 or 6 years ago, I started teaching, uh, at various, uh, uh,
various schools, um, and including, uh, most important, uh, uh, uh, US particle accelerator school.
I will say a few words about that. So the first lecture today will be about colliders in general.
Second one will be given by Jeff Felder, uh, on beam optics and the related stuff.
And, uh, lecture three will be mostly, uh, concentrated on effects of we called beam dynamics.
How how beams move. Uh, the homework as I said, will be in groups, uh, and coordinated by us.
But this school just be aware that's, uh, just about concepts.
Not much more can be said, but no means it will be when the comprehensive introduction, uh,
again, given that muon collider will be the first beyond the standard model of accelerators.
Collider. So standard model of accelerators, if you have a bunch of magnets and the vacuum chamber and and detector, that's that's your collider.
Um, collider will be far beyond that, far beyond this standard way we built the colliders.
So from that perspective, a lot of, uh, basic knowledge is required in order to make it reality.
Uh, moreover, a lot of ideas and invention of new,
new approaches very much recommended that all of you consider coming to and getting more kind of rigorous, uh,
education in beams and accelerators that education is provided either by courses
at universities or crash courses called the US Particle Accelerator School.
When students come for, uh, two weeks and they get, uh, trained in a variety of courses from technologic technology,
of, uh, of beams and accelerators to the more sophisticated use of, uh, beam dynamics and, and so on, so forth.
US particle is created. The uh, accelerator, uh, uh, webpage is here.
So they right now basically this school comes, uh, gets together twice a year for two weeks at different locations.
Basically, you can wait a little bit and find out where where they come close to your,
your favorite university or place and join their, uh, or look at the schedule of courses.
Right. So, for example, just, uh, earlier this February, so myself, uh, uh, taught, uh, course on colliders in, uh, Knoxville.
Right. So Tennessee, uh, and who?
Kyle. Wave your hand again? Kyle was there. So you can talk to Kyle and, uh, Martin.
Martin is sitting there. So if you have questions, come to me. Come to Martin.
Kyle. You'll see how how the school work. Similarly successful school.
And that school gives good education. It's a lot of work from 8 a.m. to 11 p.m. every day, but for two weeks.
And you get a lot. Right. Similar type of structure, uh, is in this school called Certain Accelerator School.
So if you are closer to Europe or like Europe, you can go there, right?
But as I said, better of for would be sign up for integrated graduate programs and accelerators.
There are more than a dozen of universities in the US which do that. So, uh, it's uh, believe me, it's a lot of fun and many, many.
Trusting things happening in beams. So next one, uh, this lecture will not bring us beyond the most basic facts about accelerators and colliders.
So, uh, as a supplemental material in Indico,
you can find the chapter written by me and Frank Zimmerman about the physics of colliders that will be even
even less than what what's what's written in those 20 pages of accelerators and colliders in the PDG?
Uh, review. Right. So, uh, again, some facts and numbers can you will be able to borrow them for your homework, for example,
from, from that uh, chapter and chapter is available on the web or in the supplemental material on Indico.
But I start with the very basic principle of acceleration. Acceleration is increase of energy.
And energy gain is nothing but force times distance.
And uh, again, the stronger the force, faster the energy gained.
For long time or longer distance, you act more the energy you get.
And, uh, so the forces, of course, are limited. We have only like four known forces, right.
Strong nuclear forces, the extremely strong but extremely short distance.
So you can get as much you can the best you can get, like hundreds of mega electron volts out of strong nuclear interaction.
So weak interaction, which is number three here right, is indeed weak.
And it's also point like uh, electromagnetic interaction is the most widely used, uh, force which we use for accelerators.
Of course, some people thought about gravitational acceleration and uh, uh, it's considered to be fun.
But then just recently people proposed that, oh, indeed, there are kind of gravitational colliders possible if particles spiral up in the,
uh, in the black hole and then, uh, close to the horizon.
So a particle some rotating in the rotating black hole, kind of, uh, moving in one direction, collides with particles, uh, rotate in other direction.
And people estimated that, uh, you can get to up to hundreds of TV of energy in such collisions and, uh, what we call luminosity or effectiveness.
So now production of collision collision rate is enormous.
So it's, uh, uh, by by our standards, it will be probably like 40 orders of magnitude higher than we can get in,
in our, uh, in our, uh, colliders we built.
But again, this is totally hypothetical.
And again, so far, no one kind of practically thought about how how how these colliders can be like super colliders can be, can be employed.
So, uh, for vector electromagnetic, it's interactions.
So, so, uh, it all comes that only electric field can accelerate can increase the energy.
Magnetic field is always perpendicular to velocity.
While you need to to have a product of force times coordinate or distance, uh, you know, to get the energy gain.
So magnetic force doesn't change energy, it can only change the direction of the particles.
But electric field can. And, uh, the ways to produce electric field, uh, few.
So in the past, people started originally with electrostatic, electrostatic, uh, uh,
accelerators when they were able to get enough electric field between two electrodes.
And the maximum field achieved in such a parada was about the order of like from ten kilo electron volts, like in TV sets to ten MeV.
The largest electrostatic accelerators, uh, big tower like structures.
Uh, still some some of them used for, for various purposes.
Uh, uh, but that again, ten megahertz on what is essentially world record.
Right. Uh, the problem is that, uh, the electric fields you can get, they are very much limited by discharge.
So if you have two electrodes, one and two, and there's so much voltage between them, and you want particle to go from one place to another.
Yes. The particle gets the energy, uh, traveling from one electron from, from here to there.
But the electric field is limited. Limited by discharge.
Right. So strong forces existing for very long time, basically forever.
It's permanent voltage. Uh, whatever we tried, uh, it's, uh, of the scale of, you know, mega volt over a meter, roughly speaking.
So at best, sometimes even more. Otherwise you have Sparc, you have a is glorious, uh, pictures.
When the big discharges happen, it's like a lightning.
Right. So and that lightning, uh, of course, is damage. And it's damage due to the electrode.
So, uh, and this machine doesn't, doesn't work for a long time, so you need to repair it.
Then we figured out that if you don't keep voltage for very long time, uh, and we either turn it on, turning it off,
or change polarity back and forth and between positive and negative electrode, that reduces the time for development of the discharge.
Basically, whatever is happening on the surface of your electrode, uh, will not happen if you quickly reverse the process.
Right. And we figured out that the, uh, faster you do that, the better it usually if you look into the maximum gradients you can achieve.
In the normal conducting structures at least, uh, these gradients, uh,
used to be thought that they are proportional to to frequency than square root of frequency.
Basically it grows. Now essentially, you know that it doesn't grow infinitely, infinitely, but it still, uh, grows significantly.
And so far this is the main method. The main method to get, uh,
one beam accelerated is to send it through a sequence of oscillation that's just related to electric fields, electromagnetic fields.
So, uh, it's not kind of stationary electrodes, uh, where the the field goes back and forth.
Right. So, but it's, uh, instead, uh, sequence of acceleration processes right now, for example, you'll see later in a circle,
um, colliders for like storage means you accelerate your particles in a certain phase of electric fields.
When a particle gets the energy, its proper phase of electromagnetic, uh, RF field.
RF stands for radio frequency. It radio frequency is usually from tens of, uh, short to tens of gigahertz.
Uh, right.
So at proper phase, you come, you get the energy out of, uh, RF, uh, electromagnetic field, then you exit the your, your gizmo, your cavity.
In this case, return your particle back to the same, the same RF cavity.
Right. And again in proper phase, if you just arrive in a proper time,
you get additional piece of energy, and you get these pieces of energy over and over again.
You can do it in a circle, efficient or in a linear fashion.
When you put your cavities one after another and every time you arrange time in such as that,
uh, oscillating electric fields always are the energy, right?
So that was an idea. Number two, make your electric fields changing fast.
That doesn't give time to develop discharge. Idea number three was, uh.
Uh. Whoa. Yeah, we can do it for single beam.
Uh, but, uh, for particle physics, it's important to get not just the energy of the beam,
but the energy that you can deliver into the production of reactions. Right.
And for production of reactions or generation of new particles or new processes, you need to bring particles, uh, to collision.
And it gives you enormous kinematic advantage.
So when you collide the particles, it's much more advantageous to get very high center of mass energies,
what we call energy is available for production. Then if you have a singular high energy beam.
So colliders allowed us to move from a recent type of accelerators which originally, oops, I let's press something wrong.
Yeah. Uh uh reach the energies do like from kind of, I don't know away from hundreds of.
Uh, uh, hundreds of MeV to to hundreds of GeV colliders allow us to move to GV multi hundreds of.
Given the ten TV scale 14 TV probably the center of mass energies the the energy available in a large Hadron Collider.
Right. So and so far these three main breakthroughs, uh, foundations.
So for accelerators. Right. So either electrostatic acceleration or RF acceleration and colliders,
there are two more things which we believe generally can allow us to proceed further in increase in energy of, uh, you know, for particle reactions.
Right. The these two evade available tricks, which we definitely will need to explore because there are no others.
We figured it out. One is switching from traditional particles to nontraditional particles.
And basically there is significant advantage in using heavy leptons instead of electrons or protons.
So heavy leptons are neurons, right.
And that will allow us to get to the realm of, uh, tens, uh, maybe sometimes people even to up to the center of mass energies in collisions of muons.
And the last trick, which we still believe can be played eventually, not now, is to use extremely high oxalate ingredients produced in the plasma.
Remember I told you that discharge limits the maximum electric field?
Make discharge kind of, you know, uh, uh, suppressed by fast switching.
That helps you a lot in other opportunities. Completely forget about this church.
Completely discharge state of, uh, state of matter.
That is a fully ionized plasma when everything is already broken.
So ions and electrons kind of floating around each other and interact a little bit and maybe sometimes don't interact only electromagnetically.
And if you separate the charges in the plasma electrons and the and ions, then very strong electric field can be created.
And this electric field potentially can bring us to hundreds of TV.
And some people believe up to one PV PV is 1000 tera electron volts, which if everybody knows what electron volt is, right?
Mega electron volt kilogram wants mega giga tera.
And now Petta pet is thousand of, uh, TV's.
So two tricks left, three tricks played out already.
So. And what we are talking today and this crowd is about muon collider is a trick number four.
Uh, in this structure of a century of development.
And maybe another century will take, uh, to realize, uh, the remaining two tricks.
So continue if you compare. Oh, you know what?
Given the time is limited, uh, I don't know how you do it.
Uh, the slides are scheduled to. This is finished at 1015, whatever it is.
So any question will reduce the information I can give to the entire audience if it's super important, but totally unclear.
Right? So ask me right now. I don't want you to stumble, but if it's something of curiosity, talk to me.
Talk to Jeff, talk to Ben. There will be a coffee break. So I think that again, if it's not supercritical, hold on.
There will be opportunity. Sorry.
Okay, so, uh, speaking of, uh, the energy available and when and just if you want to get it, Mother Nature, give us an example.
How far how how far we can potentially in physics process bring us the energy of the particles.
Uh, for example, if you compare, uh, the, the flux in, uh,
how many particles come pure square meter per stay, radian per second, per GV, uh, out of cosmos.
Right. You'll see that the standard, uh, standard, uh, spectrum of the flux.
Where's that, uh, force? Very quickly. This is double look, I think scale 10 to -20 and ten one and so on and so forth.
Right. Then, for cosmic rays, we know that we've seen and detected particles up to the energy of ten to the 21 electron volts.
So that is uh, it's uh, ten to the 12 giga electron volts.
And that was observed only once in Utah in 1991.
So it was 51 joules in a single particle, which entered the atmosphere and hit the detector in Utah.
So and since that what's called oh my god particle.
Right. So because they the event was horrendous. Right.
We know that these particles do exist in nature somehow due to various methods of acceleration.
So Mother Nature was able to accelerate particles to such a great energies.
But again it happens in unpredictable time, unpredictable place.
So nothing energy is not predictable. You basically will be hard to catch.
At the same time, if you look into what, uh, particle colliders deliver, they deliver,
uh, 2030, it's like 45 orders of magnitude, uh, larger flux at a certain time.
That's where particle physics is going to enjoy. And they have in place put their detectors and study this event.
But again, 45 orders of magnitude in flux. But eight orders of magnitude low energy.
So that gives us hope that given that there is something that exists in nature, right?
So we can potentially close that gap of eight orders of magnitude, maybe by another,
you know, order 2 or 3 of the past over the next, say, decades, somehow, somewhere.
Right. So but it gives you a comparison.
We are extremely successful in production, but not very successful compared to Mother Nature in, uh, delivering very high energies.
Uh, of of the particles is still very high, right? So for your homework, uh, for your homework assignments, uh, it will be important.
Uh, for you to recall what you learned from from from your classes about Lawrence.
Environmental. Some variables. And the most important of them is the center of mass energy, uh, or very mandelstam, uh, uh,
variable s, which is a square of center of mass energy, which is, uh, square of uh, for uh,
four dimensional momenta, uh, of particles in the reaction, particularly because we will be talking about colliders when you have particle one,
particle two colliding and producing, producing something else.
Right. So I skip that slide.
Uh, kinematics of collision is such that, uh, uh, from this one, this invariant also basically from very basic kinematics of relativistic collisions,
is that center of mass in, uh, energy is proportional to square root of this very long,
uh, product, uh, which includes two E1, E2 and so on and so forth and so on.
So for there is a cosine theta angle between the particles when they, when the particle velocities when they collide.
But if you simplify this long formula from mandelstam variables, uh, so the for the case when one of the particles is stationary,
for example, energy of particle two is equal to mass times c squared.
Then center of mass energy available for, for or again for particle reactions is square root of two e energy of incoming particle and MC squared.
If both particles move basically e1 and e2 two energies are much larger.
Then uh, then the the their energy at rest for both particles, then center of mass energy is nothing but two times square root of e1 e2.
If e1 and e2 equal to the same energy.
For example, five TV muon and five TV muon when you collide them, square root of five times five is five multiplied by 2 to 2 times the energy.
So ten TV. That's what we are talking about. So the gain is enormous that it was a great invention at some time, uh, some time ago that the gain,
for example for LHC uh, uh, again, the time when I wrote this slide, the energy efficiency was 6.5 TV.
So now it's 6.6.8, right.
So for for let's see energies. So if particles wouldn't collide you would lose factor of hundred 20 in the center of mass energy available.
So it will not be uh it will not be 13 to the center of mass energy, but only 0.11 which is 110 GV center of mass energy.
So that's enormous gain. That's why again, it was one of these no five tricks which we know should work.
So and colliding colliding beams is a trick number three into one of the most important.
So the colliding facilities were from because of this enormous kinematic advantage.
Again factor of candidate might not look like a big factor by astrophysics.
Uh, you know, um, you know, astrophysics scales even when parameters change by tens of orders of magnitude.
But for our real, practical accelerators where everything then goes to cost and energy efficiency.
So a factor of factor of hundred is enormous gain out of a simple trick of colliding the particles.
We the colliding facilities were extremely popular just because of the reason they were built in various configurations,
or at least they can be imagined in various configurations when particles move in two different circles,
for example in this circle and in that circle and collide. And one interaction point, one of the, uh, some colliders might go this way.
Most of the color just look like a circle of colliders intersecting like two rings interact, intersect.
And one of the colliders was built when you have a singular linear accelerator and particles two plus particles and minus particles,
electrons and positrons will send through different arcs and collide. Here one of the largest will be this way, but configuration D is called uh, uh,
linear colliders because they use two Linux Linux then for linear accelerator Linac linear accelerator.
So if you have particle accelerated by Linac one colliding with particle accelerator by a Linac two and they collide interaction point,
it's called Linear Collider. None of this configuration deep collider has been built yet.
But again there are many plans for it.
Other configurations include the colliding rings and the Linac colliding recent so-called energy recovery Linux, and so on, so forth.
But those are not been realized yet. So.
Collider's, uh, landscape, uh, started 61 years ago.
The first collisions observed in the spring 1964, one accident in Italy and one accelerator in Soviet Union delivered the first detectable,
uh, collisions of uh, uh, electrons, positrons, and electrons and electrons.
Since then, since 61 years ago, 31 Collider has been, uh, brought to operational stage, and they are all listed.
So this article by myself in front similar one where we have all the key parameters in this, uh, review of Modern Physics Review.
Right. So seven Collider starting operations right now. Two under construction, one in the United States called electron nine Collider.
Another one in Russia called the uh Nica Collider for heavy ions.
At least two more types of colliders, uh, considered to be needed for particle physics progress over the next decades.
One is called so-called, uh Higgs colliders, which, uh, generate Higgs particles or electroweak for, for studying the electroweak interactions.
So basically it's energies of now 200 to 300 GV center of mass energies.
And people believe that eventually we need to proceed beyond the energy available at the Large Hadron Collider.
Right. And muon Collider. So for one of the ways, as we'll see, uh, later on.
Right. So the energy of the colliders, as I said, 31 of them were built energies are listed here.
Again, this is double logarithmic. Uh, this is a logarithmic plot.
Energy center of mass energy has grown by, uh, six orders of magnitude from earlier ways.
When you had like a some GV energies to for future to to LHC right now.
Right. So over the again over six decades five orders of magnitude increase in energies.
But people are thinking about higher and higher energies in various uh, uh, configurations of uh, colliding beam facilities.
All right. So the only way to increase energy, just repeat the story of the first slide is for now, uh,
from physics principles is to use electromagnetic forces, electromagnetic, particularly electric force.
Only electric force gives you energy.
And because of the way we build colliders right now.
So in order to get very high gradients of acceleration, the highest possible, we need to use so-called RF,
radiofrequency electromagnetic field fields, which which change change polarities.
And in order to effectively generate these fields we use resonant structures called cavities.
So uh, and in this particular case you see structure which consists of uh one, two, three, four, five cavities brought together.
They have one single source of RF power, basically the electromagnetic, uh, waves of a certain frequency, Phi, uh, fill this structure a resonant, uh,
and given that this structure has a Q factor quality factor for normal conducting cavities of the order of like 10,000 for superconducting cavities.
So the order of uh, billion. Right.
So 4 billion cycles of RF frequencies, you fill up, you build up the amplitude of electric field inside this cavity.
And then when the amplitude is there or it's continuously there, you send your particle from the left, it enters the cavity.
And when the particle goes through the cavity, it gets, for example,
boost of the energy in the first of these cavities while simultaneously exactly at the moment when the particle is here,
the the the field in the neighbor cavity is opposite.
But when the particle traverses from cavity one to cavity to the field in the second cavity change,
this is sign because that's the leads back and forth. So it basically when it arrives to the second cavity particle gets uh energy
boost again and then again and then again and then again if you do it properly,
basically you need to make sure that particle always synchronously gets in phase with the electric field in the cavity.
So at the end of the day traversing through that field.
So the particle gets the energy boost proportional to e charge of the particle and integrated product of electric field,
which is usually vector times the velocity vector multiplied by time uh integrated over time.
So and if cavity in total delivers, you know, maximum voltage v sec right.
So then the gain is proportional to VAC multiplied by charge of the particle of course.
And depends of course on the face at which the particle enters the cavity.
So if it uh, again it oscillates. If you a little bit of the phase you can get decelerated as effectively as you can get accelerated.
Right. So unfortunately, somehow it's, uh, not shown here.
But again, this is, this is where the particles are in order to get the maximum acceleration because the field versus time and versus z
changes in the oscillatory measurement in the matter of fashion and particles getting either high and high energy,
or if you of the phase if you don't match the phase. You can get either no acceleration or even deceleration.
You don't want to get into this regime.
So how much power is needed in order to deliver in order to deliver this energy to the beam is dependent on, uh, dependent on two things.
First of all, if you have very high current of, uh, of, uh, of your beam, then, for example,
you have for one empire of the beam, which goes through one mega electron volt of acceleration.
It means one ampere, one mega electron volt product of that gives you the power which you send into the beam.
Basically, this is the power which comes out of irfc, which is somehow magically right and, uh, delivered into the beam.
So the first part of the RF power required is just product of acceleration, Delta energy increase right times the current of the beam.
If beam current is large, this is a large factor. But at the same time, you should make sure, uh, that we account for what is lost.
Not in the beam energy lost in the beam, but elsewhere.
And that we call this losses due to the, for example, finite resistance of your cavity or if, uh, if cavity not effectively used.
So this, uh, losses uh,
power of the losses typically is proportional to the square of the voltage of the cavity voltage squared divided by what we call shunt impedance.
This is a characteristic characteristic, uh, efficient of your cavity which is proportional to how what how how how how will,
uh, conductive from conductance of the walls of your cavity?
Basically, if the cavity superconducting, you don't lose that much energy in the walls.
But if cavities normal conductor. Of course you can imagine that strong electric fields inside the cavity, the hit the wall right.
The wall of the RFK which is send some power is lost in the walls.
Right. Uh, and that should be accounted. And why are we talking about two of, uh, two of this part?
Because for low intensity machines, even current is small.
The first part is, uh, is basically can be negligible for, for example, you have just single particle in your accelerator.
And then the second term starts to dominate, right.
So basically you essentially do nothing but you heat the walls of your cavities.
Right. But in some accelerators when especially colliders or machines for production of in a very,
you know, copious amounts of beams, this first factor becomes very important.
Sometimes it dominates the second factor. Right. Once again, to repeat this quality factor which goes into this equation.
And this shunt impedance is proportional to quality factor times. Essentially this is like kind of term uh parameter.
Right. This quality factor Q for copper cavities uh 300 K is approximately 10,000 for superconducting cavities.
Its factor for about in 1 billion or 10 billion.
Right. So that's why people very often try to minimize the second term, uh, by switching from normal conducting cavities to superconducting cavities.
But again, it requires different technology f k with, you know, basically the next tomorrow, for example, you hear about the cavities of all kinds.
They look weird sometimes. The structures usually say simple cavities.
Like I show me one of the slides. It's a cavity cavity, but sometimes it's a little bit more complicated.
So the maximum gradients achieved in the cavities, uh, of the order of uh, the bottom of this slide of the order of 100 per meter.
The maximum oxygen gradient in normal conducting cavity is at 12GHz.
Right. While for superconducting cavities, for example, on the right hand side of the slide at the bottom,
you see International Linear Collider, uh, um, design of cavity for International Linear Collider,
which operates with the eight, uh, cavities together in one structure at 1.3GHz,
and they achieve 51.5 mega watts per meter in superconducting cavities, you see normal conducting cavities.
Why people still use them because they can deliver much higher gradients.
So if you need shorter distance of your linear accelerator, you use the highest possible gradient.
But remember in the previous slide the losses are proportional to the voltage squared.
Basically you increase the voltage and losses go the voltage squared.
So basically yeah you can go you can operate with much higher gradients, much higher voltages you know cavities.
But the walls will be heated more and more and more. So normal conduction could just allow one important thing.
You can turn them on for microsecond or nanosecond T1, right?
Only for very short time. Only when the particles go through, especially like in a linear colliders, particles go through this system just once.
That's why, again, this very high heating power off of the power dissipation in the walls will appear only for a very short period of time,
and it's still become efficient for superconducting cavities.
Given that the quality factor in superconducting cavities is enormous, the particle the fields are in there for seconds.
Basically put the power in. The power essentially stays there, right?
So you can turn it on. Turn it off effectively. That's why the gradients in superconducting cages are very comparatively low by a factor of three.
Could be one by a factor of 4 or 5 compared to normal conduction.
So superconducting cavities are high quality quality factor intensive physical processes.
Basically distillation stand there for a long time, right? And they are usually used for very high average power production facilities.
While when it goes to the highest possible energies achievable,
people usually think about using normal conduction cages and normal conducting cages can be turned on.
Turn off quickly. Right. That's about RF cavities.
So and uh, um, again, two types of accelerators which are most widely discussed right now I the circular ones or linear ones in the circle of Wands,
you send the particle through a sequence of, uh, cavities.
That's where particles get injured.
And every time you get the energy boost, you need to figure out how to return that particle back to your accelerating cavities.
Right?
Basically, we arrange the return of this particle, uh, back, uh, to the RF, to the accelerating cavities in the proper, in a proper time, right.
In a linear colliders or linear accelerators, uh, where you can just for a very short period of time, turn on irfc,
which is simultaneously send your particle from the left accelerator,
then a sequence of cavities, bring it to the various to the highest energy you can achieve.
Do the same for particles on the right. So for in this case electrons and positrons and collide.
So yes your you in a normal conducting accelerator this particular thing right.
Like like that you can accelerate particles in a linear fashion.
Right. Basically always accelerate accelerate accelerate accelerate.
Don't don't waste time on spending. You know, time on rotating your particle back, back, back to the RF cavity.
Right. So continue acceleration continuously in the clinic. Right.
That gives you in some sense the fastest way to bring particles to very high energies.
The problem is that RFK, which is cost so much compared to to magnets that for now,
for at least for previous, uh, for previous in the 51 colliders, there was out of 31 colliders.
Only one collider was built this way, and it was very expensive way to build it, right?
Linear collider type. While 30 colliders were built in a circular way.
Right. So because magnets are cheaper than RF cavities.
All right. That's the fundamental, fundamental, uh, fact about uh, about, uh, you know, about accelerators, right.
So but again, it's not necessarily no law of nature.
Right. So maybe it will change, particularly when you accelerate in the super high gradient structures like plasma in the future.
But for now, this is this is the reality. The type of circle accelerators were many.
The first one was invented by Ernest or now Harlan Lawrence in Berkeley in 1936.
He got Nobel Prize for it, uh, called cyclotron. Then they have, you know, Metatron, synchrotron and so on.
And so so far, the most colliders we are talking about and those cooperative for, for particle physics, uh,
so-called synchrotron synchrotron, uh, and like Tevatron, LHC and muon Collider, we are we are talking about will be so-called synchrotron.
What happens in this synchrotron. So you have one accelerator of some few accelerator cavities.
These cavities um, like go to LHC. Uh, these are what, how many uh eight cavities installed in the, in a large, large collider.
Right. So the each cavities of the size of this table, roughly speaking.
Right. So you have four of them. It's a relatively short piece of acceleration section.
Right. And the rest of the machine is nothing but magnets.
Magnets, magnets. Uh, I would say simplified picture.
There are many other interesting, uh, uh, devices there for, for collimation of the particles, for injection of the particles,
but essentially it's a cavity somewhere, uh, which, which brings the energy of the particle and bunch of magnets.
So what's important that if you want to save on on magnets and make magnets with small aperture, uh,
then you need to follow, uh, you need to keep them in the same position all the time at various energy.
For example, you at LHC, you inject particle with 450 GeV energy and then accelerate, uh, and increase the energy up to 6.8 to 6800 GV.
How come particles with such different energies you the energy sweep is what factor of 14, roughly speaking.
Right. So by a factor of 14 and uh, and it just a different but particles still travel the same circle and the
moreover the same circle within the vacuum chamber which is 50mm in diameter,
roughly speaking. So how how is the table how how it's possible to do it is possible if you keep.
The simple conditions which relate. Bending radius of your magnet and energy.
If magnetic field be in your magnets or all your magnets increase simultaneously
with the increase of the energy energies gained by energies increased by RFK.
Which is right. If you increase energy, you simultaneously need to increase magnetic field and then radius stays constant.
In case of LHC, for example, radius is 4.24km.
So this is fixed and fixed within. Basically radius is not different by essentially even less than a millimeter, frankly speaking, for all images.
But the reason for why particles can circulate over the circle is that we increase simultaneously energy and magnetic field.
Right. And that allows us to keep particles always on the same trajectory.
And that in case of exceeds the 2020 6.7km.
Right. So particles always go through the same trajectory with orbit.
All right. So of course, uh, the maximum energy you can achieve in such in such arrangement is just proportional to the maximum magnetic field.
Remember the previous equation energy is point three magnetic field in Tesla radius in meters.
Right. So if magnetic field is one Tesla you can get only so much energy.
Its magnetic field is ten Tesla. You can get much ten times higher for the same radius ten times higher energy.
So that's why maximum magnetic field is the most important parameter for synchrotron like LHC, Tevatron, muon Collider and others or IC.
Right. So the first superconducting magnets which allow to get above two Tesla field were built for Tevatron in 80s.
All right. So it's really sort of sort of in scale. So the Tevatron magnet is that big right.
Then there are magnets built for big machines called Hera in Germany.
Uh, 3.5 Tesla magnets for machine called the Relativistic Collider, the Brookhaven,
the piece of art and magnets with a dual aperture for protons moving in opposite directions,
were built for LHC, and the 1200 of them were built and installed in the LHC tunnel and the field there is 8.3 Tesla.
So. And uh, this process progress took 40 years.
Roughly speaking, you increase by and uh, magnetic field by a factor of two and took 40 years of, uh, magnet development.
What we need for muon Collider, as you learn today and later, we need the magnetic fields of the order of 12 to 16 Tesla magnetic fields again.
And you can just prorate maybe 20 years from now so we can make this world record it.
8.3 Tesla in operational, uh, magnets.
Right. You do have samples. Which of of magnets with prototype devices which achieved already uh, 15 and even 16 Tesla.
But those are not technologically prepared. Essentially it's for physicists and engineers to play.
Right. But 8.3 is current record. We need to get higher if you want to build muon collider, for example.
8.3 Tesla in order to get, you know, to get very high energies in the synchrotron arrangement,
the key for the magnets when you start building magnets to more, of course, and day after tomorrow,
you will learn about how people actually build these magnets, what leaves, what is in the essence of, uh, of,
uh, building this magnetic field that you need electric current in order to generate magnetic field, right.
For arrangement, which requires dipole magnetic field, for example, vertical arrangement, magnetic field.
And if particle moves this way if you the bend in the horizontal plane.
So for vertical magnetic field, uh, the way to arrange uh,
to arrange the magnetic field in vertical orientation so far was to properly place conductors.
So the distribution of the current in the magnet looks like this particular case is called cosine theta.
Cosine theta means that the theta is angle between x and y, right.
If n is equal to zero, a lot of current goes on right hand side or on the left hand side.
Positive and negative current and less and less and less current should flow.
Uh, when you go to to the kind of, uh, to the mid plane of, of y.
Right. Basically no current in the poles and the big currents on the left.
On the right. In this arrangement, you can especially if it's exactly cosine pepper.
Right. You can get purely dipole magnetic field.
And that's what's required for, for our magnets. Right. Can can this arrangement be done.
The answer is yes because we don't deliver all this big current uh in a single conductor.
So in fact we use wires and wires sometimes all cables, uh, the cables, uh,
for superconducting magnets out of the scale of like one millimeter by five, six, seven, ten millimeters.
So it's a tapes inside the lot of wires inside.
Right? Or really, you know, millimeter size wires, usually superconducting.
If you get very high, if you want to get super, super high fields, right, which gives you a lot of a lot of current.
Right. And you put individual wires at proper location, uh, and each wire carries the same current.
Right. So and then basically you have many, many tons of wire properly placed.
And then voila, you get the magnet you like.
For example, you can get this dipole arrangement.
What's important is that the the maximum field is proportional to the current density times aperture.
But the cost grows to do that because there's a trend. What do you want to save the cost of the magnet.
Uh, or you want to get the maximum magnetic field. Uh, and but in in any case, the key parameter for uh, for the magnets is the current density.
Not just the current, the total current, the but how much, how much current you can send through, uh, for example, you know,
centimeter square of your of your conductor, uh, space or space where you put your, your coils, your, your, your wires, right.
For, uh, and that's where the difference, uh, comes when the between room temperature conductors and superconductors,
room temperature conductors take a piece of copper for example here.
Right. So you can send of the order of one maximum ten and pierce through millimeter square of copper wire.
Depends on how well you cool it. Because if you don't cool it heats up at very high current.
Right. So and basically if you, you, if you don't care, of course, uh, uh, it breaks.
It just melts. Right. So and you can work this way for superconductors the resistance is equal to zero.
Exactly. Right. So so superconductors. What we found out that what kills superconductivity is the magnetic field produced by the current themselves.
Current wires themselves. Because each each worker is magnetic current right.
And current generates magnetic field. Eventually it results in very strong magnetic fields which kill the superconductivity in the neighbor current.
Right. So anyways, practical limits for superconductors like thousands of my peers can go through millimeter square.
So one millimeter by ten millimeter cable can carry ten 15km of current.
So that's an enormous current. And that generates enormous magnetic fields.
And that's what the used for for magnets like that. So I skip these details about the and about superconducting, uh, materials so far.
What's important for you to understand that. Again the current density is key parameter as I showed in the previous slide.
Current density depends on what is the material.
Of course you can't use copper, but you can use superconducting materials.
So far three of them will develop. One is niobium titanium so-called it's a type two superconductor.
Another one uh, which uh works up to like approximately an eight Tesla eight nine Tesla magnetic fields.
Next one is now M 13.
It's the material which is used in the high luminosity upgrade of, uh, LHC, and that material can operate up to 1516 Tesla magnetic fields.
But the big hopes of, uh, of future machine will decide to use high temperature superconductors,
which potentially have can have uh, uh, 30, 14, even 50 Tesla maximum magnetic fields of the period.
This question is not the record. Tesla question is how much of current density.
Remember, key word for magnet builders is current density.
So yes, it can operate at very high magnetic fields, but how much current it can carry.
And that's a trade off. That's where solid state physicist come in engineers.
And they develop better and better materials.
And they try to increase using their methods increase the current density which superconductors can can carry out.
That's what's important for the magnets. So this is a picture of happy people, which, uh, just a year ago or two years ago,
built a 14.5 Tesla demonstrator of superconducting magnets built on, uh,
niobium 3D technology, which is again, enough aperture, approximately a big,
big aperture magnet, but relatively short LHC magnets, for example, uh, 12m long.
There are tall magnets for six meters long. This is like what, the meter meter in the half magnets?
Only small piece just to play and see, uh, how it works.
Uh, what's important for this magnets is that back going back.
What is this? Apertures. Where? Essentially like this. The conductor is somewhere there.
The rest is support that keeps conductor from moving, uh, moving away from the outside.
Because when currents, for example, you have current going this direction and current going in that direction,
two opposite currents, they repel each other. You remember that, right?
So and the forces are enormous at some moment the force is produced by you try to increase the magnetic field, put more and more current in there.
The forces get larger and larger. At some moment. The forces, the pressure or from the magnetic forces breaks the material of the superconductor.
Right. And in order to keep that material in shape, you put a lot of, you know, in stainless steel.
You put a lot of hard material which holds the superconductor in the proper locations.
So that's why all of these superconducting magnets, as we see right now, look like it's like a beer can that much of diameter.
It's sausage, but again, very, very thick. So LHC magnet is approximately that much of diameter right.
So for for muon collided it will be approximately the same aperture.
So that small. So that much of stuff and the sausage is what, 12 sometimes 16.
Some people think that even 20m long uh, magnets uh optimal for, for production and so on, so forth.
That's actually it's a piece of art by itself. Right. So and for muon Collider, they'll need many of these pieces of art for various, uh,
systems besides dipole magnets, which turn particles around in the horizontal plane.
You need to keep these particles away from, uh, from going astray in, for example, vertical plane.
And I encourage them to play the bent in the vertical and horizontal plane.
You would like to keep the beams contained, and you need to build what they install in the same ring.
Uh, magnets called quadruples. These are magnets which generate magnetic field which is proportional to the deviation.
There is no magnetic field on the center of the quadrupole, but strong kind of focus in field generated.
If particle deviates from the from the from the central orbit of your machine.
Uh, LHC magnets have two apertures, right. So you see that the aperture one and aperture two for two different beams.
And again, any deviation from the center in this beam in this magnet.
And any deviation in this magnet result in the forces which return particle back to the center.
All right. So when you return particles back to the center, uh, and the particle for example,
is injected, you know, in the LHC there are ten to the 14 particles circulating.
And believe them, each of them is a total democracy.
Each of them is follows their own, their own trajectory.
So you inject that particle, you live, for example, 100 microns away from the center.
It will continuously 800 microns away from the center, over and over and over again.
Because there is no damping mechanism for protons, essentially there is no damping mechanism for problem.
So you see, uh, the beams which we see in the colliders like LHC, uh, collections of individually oscillating particles.
Right. So and yes, there is probably one particle out of ten, the 14, which stays exactly on the same trajectory over and over again.
All the remaining ten, the 14 particles go back and forth longitudinally in transfer.
So what's important is that how how effective is that focusing?
Uh, uh, there are different parameters which describe focus.
Instructors. Jeff Eldredge and his lecture will go through objects and how we focus the beams and why it is important to keep,
uh, fine tuned, uh, parameters of the focus and elements.
The most important parameter for for people operating the machine is what we call tune tuned.
It's like a tune of the guitar string,
like you see the three to each frequency distillate tune is the car many oscillation one particle makes for example,
um, perfect particle which goes back and forth.
For example, in the vertical plane, boom boom boom boom boom boom boom returns back how many oscillations it's done right.
And usually it's for small machines. It's a small number. For big machines it's a big number,
for example for 64 oscillations plus fractional part 0.31 64 oscillations basically says that how strong is the focusing.
So how quickly you return particle back to the central position when it deviates to the central position.
But this fractional part is very important because if the fractional part is incorrectly chosen,
usually it requires a little bit of perturbation in order to change focus and
perturbation in order to change what we call fractional part of the tune.
For example, this .31. But it can have enormous consequences, because if that 0.31 number, for example,
if it would be 0.31, but 0.30 for LHC lifetime of particles in LHC would be equal to,
I would say between 10 to 20 turns, because 0.3 is a rational number,
it's a three divided by ten and we call that resonance when you have integer number divided by another integer number.
For example, two divided by seven, three divided by ten, one divided by four.
Any rational number in this tune result in concern.
Concern is that, uh, perturbations will explain how particles oscillate.
But when particles oscillate and come, uh come common resonance, even in non-linear resonance,
when even a different fractional tune at the same time 510 for example, three divided by ten means ten turns.
The larger particle will come to the same kind of the same place, with the same amplitude and the same, uh, velocity.
And if there is a teeny tiny perturbation, uh, what you call 10th order resonance, you know,
perturbation, that perturbation may cause that particle to increase its amplitude.
And that's what we don't like. We. Like to inject the particle, for example.
Microns away from the center, not more. Right. And the particle always stays within 100 microns.
So if you're incorrectly choosing your focus in property of hearing, that amplitude can grow.
And as I said, for some resonances it can grow extremely fast.
As I said, the LHC operates for tens of hours, like 20 hours.
The best, right? If focus on properties like properly tuned up.
And this is really fine tuning, it's, uh, the level of then the minus four of the units of oscillations, right?
If it's improperly set the machine lifetime, beam lifetime can be, as I said,
tens of turns could be hundreds of turns, but not more, basically milliseconds.
Right. Uh, important parameter for the beam is, as I told, the beam is collection of individual particles,
which in many cases don't interact with each other. They don't even know about their existence of neighbors.
Right. So an independent collection of the particles, each having different amplitudes of oscillations is what we see.
Yeah, we see momentum. Okay. So it's a bunch approximately eight centimeters arms.
It means four sigma will be about that long a bunch of particles and you know,
ten to the ten to the 12 of them in a in this little object object is about 200 microns thick.
And that that long. Right. But inside there are billions and billions of particles oscillating back and forth every turn.
When did you run the length transversely?
And the parameter which describes their average quote quantity is important for for luminosity are parameter called the meters.
Again, this word will appear over and over. Impedance is kind of Rmse.
Angular spread times Rmse uh, beam size, right product of mass beam size,
and how much energy spread uh, is called emitters in meters is again key word for it is the builders.
Normalized admittance is the same product. Mass times are mass multiplied by gamma or beta gamma, to be precise.
Uh, what's important about the two meters is that if there is no damping mechanism, mechanism which cools down the particles,
uh, again, that's that's the case for most accelerators that emit and normalized mutants.
Gamma times are mass, uh, spread out mass and both square times the mass beam size is so-called that diabetic invariant.
So basically you can accelerate your particles in this normalized mutants will stay.
So why this is important because luminosity the parameter of uh collider which is very important for us.
How how how many how many particles you can produce per second, uh, is proportional to how dense are your beams?
It means it's proportional to square of intensity of the beam divided by beam size squared and beam size squared is this limit.
Essentially it's just inversely proportional to it's smaller.
They meet smaller beams the better. Uh, see how it works?
I don't care about where that's an integer in LHC. Yeah.
I'm calling one point is again what's missing here behind behind this white bar is in LHC.
This emit and is something that is saved over not only in time normalized emissions, but also at different points of the machine.
The semi beams come either larger or smaller sizes,
but such a way that emissions is constant everywhere in mutants is product of angular spread times.
Beam size. For example, the LHC interaction point transverse beam size is about eight microns transverse beam size,
but the angular spread is large, and the product of a small beam size by large angular spread is the same that everywhere in the ring.
For example, you go to a typical arc, for example, one of the kilometers in LHC, and you see that the product of the beam size,
which is not eight microns anymore, which is approximately 250 microns in the at the kilometer position.
But, uh, it's a 30 times larger beam size, but then the spread is 30 times smaller, so the product stays the same.
So that's what this ah, transformations. What uh, typical for what we called linear optics.
And once again, generally it's been more how it works in reality.
But this is extremely important right.
So the the this product, this mutants is the same in any point of your, of your, of your machine where particles circulate.
So uh, particles equation of motion. So um, so how much time I have?
Uh, maybe ten minutes. And then we take some questions.
Okay? That's why when it comes to generating something, it important for you, for your particle colliders,
for example, you need to generate extremely dense beams at the interaction point.
And that's what we do. We focus the beams, focus on the beams, employs very strong focus and magnets,
which you kind of increase the angular spread in the machine at the same time decreasing the the beam size.
So the beam size is uh proportional to.
Again, use this formulas again. You will use them for. You don't need them for homework.
Beam size will be proportional to so-called better funtion geometric parameter,
usually like meters or millimeters times times in meters of the beam with square root.
Uh, and that focus in that course over over certain kind of waist length of the waist, which is proportional to this better function.
So again I'm introducing various various and jargons.
Importance is number one very important parameter. Another one is better function.
Jordan to Jeff to explain why this better function is to say important.
So it's a. Basically function that describes focus and properties of your.
Of your machine. So when you need to focus your beams right.
So you make this better funtion small will be equivalent to making the beam size small.
Right. But again it can be done only for so much. And there are limitations of uh,
and how to to repeat again conceptually if particles and they mostly don't interact with each other and they
sort of independently wobble in longitudinal play back and forth in vertical plane and horizontal plane,
that's a collection of oscillators, right? So, uh, in linear, you know, motion, as I said, the typical arm is, uh, bunch lengths.
And the LHC, for example, is eight centimeters, right.
Uh, and particles which go back and forth in the, in the fields of RFK, which is the top energy,
RFK, which is what such a way that they don't need to add energy anymore.
So and particle. Yes, RF activities are still on their slate continuously,
but particle gets in the face when there is net acceleration equal to zero and
only if particle is deviated a little bit in time arrives earlier on sooner.
Right. It gets, uh, either decelerating voltage a little bit or accelerating voltage in order to
return it back to the condition where there is net acceleration equal to zero,
because the top energy you don't need to energy need, you don't need to change the energy anymore.
Right. So and uh, on the previous slide it shows what happens there.
So you put your particle in the center of the RF cavity or just RFK,
which is such as the face of RF is equal to, uh, to 90 degrees or the hundred 80 degrees.
And particle doesn't get energy, but particles still oscillate. They some of them have slightly different energies.
Uh, typical energies spread in LHC beams is about 10 to -4.
It's about one GeV. So average energy spread is one GB out of, uh, 6800.
Right. So ten minus four, roughly speaking.
Uh, and these particles, they always have this energy deviation from the center and they go back and forth.
So it's a collection of billions and billions of particles with, uh, different, uh,
different amplitudes in it, you know, and energetic, uh, energetic parameters, energy parameters.
So the time scale of these oscillations is such that the lowest oscillations are these longitudinal oscillations.
Right. So in that, you know, the solutions are the slowest, for example, in LHC at 70, the particle makes full oscillation from bunches that long.
Right. So particle comes from this side of the bunch to another side of the bunch 23 times a second.
It's a back and forth. So a period of 20, uh, frequency of 23Hz revolution frequency in the LHC is 11kHz.
It's kind of low 90, 90 microseconds. Right.
So the frequency of better translations is 60 times more 680kHz RF frequency in the RFC,
which is a harmonic of revolution frequency is harmonic number 35,640.
So basically one particle makes, uh, one turn around the LHC uh, voltage in the RFK,
which just changes 35,640 times, back and forth, back and forth, back and forth.
Right. This is the highest frequency. Right.
So and of course, again, these are the relatively fast frequencies, the lower frequency, uh parameter changes drift happened due to various things.
Uh, like injection extraction ramp, ramp is very slow like 20 minutes.
Right. So sometimes cooling occurs over hours with all the while cooling luminosity case because particles die and so on, so forth.
So I don't know whether it will break or not. But given that we have only ten minutes for my lecture one, I have ten slides to show.
What's important is that for particle uh, reactions you need to bring two beams together.
And effectiveness is proportional to parameter called luminosity.
Basically, the number of your, uh, reactions which you observe is proportional to the cross-section of the reaction times.
Integrated luminosity. Luminosity which goes under this integral is how often you collide the beams.
Frequency of collisions.
Number of particles in bunch one number of particles in branch two, and the denominator product of bunch size at the interaction point x and y.
So for on beams it will be sigma squared right. That's why it's very important to compress beam in the direction point as much as possible.
Right. So I skip I skip that D again.
This luminosity of course is proportional to intensities and beam sizes.
But if if the bunches are very long or bunches collided uh crushing then golden luminosity can can suffer.
So sometimes it is necessary to collide bunches uh, in the direction point that certain cross is not particularly important for,
uh, electron positron colliders or electron proton colliders, because there is a lot of background radiation, synchrotron radiation,
what you call and beams need to go this way in LHC beams need to go to an angle because there are so many.
Branches. You don't want, uh, you don't want them to see each other.
Right. So, uh, when the when the kind of, you know, when they go out of interaction point.
So beams are separated, right? So anyway, sometimes crossing angles are important.
Not for me. On Collider, for anyone. Collider will collide. Beams Head-On.
Essentially. But when? When, uh, when crossing angles are important, they may affect luminosity.
Luminosity goes down. For example, in the electron nine collider being built in Brookhaven,
the crossing go is such that if you don't correct the effect of the crossing, then because bunches don't collide.
Head-On. Basically, particles go through each other. A lot of probability to interact.
If if collides this way there is probability of interaction drops because effectively cross the intersection of the beams is larger and larger.
The beam size transfers beam size lower luminosity. So people need to correct for this crossing.
And basically they figured out that we need to rotate the bunches of little bunches when they come to interaction point, they make it like this.
And when they go to the interaction point, they go through each other and then continue propagating in the tilted way.
So this is called crossing scheme. So for this kind so um called glass effect uh, and so on, so forth.
Basically when it comes to luminosity, when you need to squeeze as much as possible out of collides, we are extremely ingenious.
So people figured out various way to increase what we call the minority by better focusing, uh,
high intensities, uh, or colliding more frequently, or generating more bunches and accelerating more bunches.
And the luminosity has grown over these 31 colliders by 7 or 8 orders of magnitude
over the same time when energy has grown by 4 or 5 orders of magnitude.
But we are still below this desired by theorists.
The scaling between energy and uh, and luminosity as luminosity should be proportional to like energy square three.
We are still still not there. It's still able to generate pretty decent luminosity in colliders.
In future colliders, luminosity will be even higher. What's important is that this parameter luminosity is time dependent.
Of course, if there are no beams, there is no luminosity.
So basically you need to wait until you inject, accelerate the beams and bring them to collision.
That's what you usually do. Indeed, in the Tevatron and do in the LHC, you inject the beams, they are separated.
They don't collide because collisions is another interesting process which essentially kills the beams.
Right. So but so you accelerate the beams to top energy and then bring them to collisions.
And they generate these reactions in four detectors in the LHC for example.
Right. And if you look in the uh, luminosity equation, it has many factors.
And all of them except probably better function changes in time and the frequency of collisions in gamma intensity changes in mutants,
beam sizes changes, bunch lengths changes. And uh, usually they decay.
Very rarely they, they either improve. Right.
So in luminosity decays, uh decays because intensity decays because beams become longer, beams becomes fatter, and so on, so forth.
Look in the LHC, that's a typical, uh, typical, uh, let's see, luminosity decay form.
So this is nine hour run, right?
You start with very high luminosity.
And nine hours later the luminosity is half of what you, you know, originally obtained it just because intensities of the beams are, you know,
getting lower and lower due to the pile up effect, due to the fact that protons, when they interact with protons, they kill each other.
Basically these particles disappear. They come out of out of the machine.
Right. So the colliders most important effects just repeat myself, that the energy is essentially totally dependent on technology.
Whatever you use, either your magnets need high energy.
Please provide highest, uh, highest magnetic field magnets are f k as high as the gradients,
power supplies, vacuum system sources, targets, collimation diagnostics, and so on, so forth.
Basically, engineering essentially determines your energy.
You can achieve same full Moon collider, right? So, uh, beam physics kind of gives you a limit on the maximum luminosity you can obtain.
There are problems related to just individual particle. Forget about billions of particles.
Even a single particle motion can be unstable.
Right. So you need to avoid all kinds of resonances losses.
What kind of mechanism you would like.
Vacuum, for example, should be good enough that diffusion of the particle when scattered on something should be small enough,
and particle can leave for 4 hours or 4 seconds in your machine.
Then there are effects related to collection of particles in individual beam, even without presence of other beams.
If you have two beams, then the variety of problems which we can counteract is enormous.
So there are beam beam affect beam, beam compensation techniques, so-called beam straw and machine detector interface problem, so on, so forth.
So assuming that particle physics interest. Is growing, going to high and high energies.
So the choice of the scheme very much depends on know what is.
What technologies are available? What are the cost and power consumption.
And again, as you've heard many times already, muon colliders.
Just recently over the past two decades were proposed as the way to proceed another order of
magnitude in high energies because you figured out the technology is available or feasible,
right? Uh, and the cost range is reasonable, right.
So energy consumption is reasonable.
So with that moon colliders, muon colliders, your own colliders, muon colliders to see how how we do it I I'm sorry not to talk too much.
The most important factor which affects luminosity evolution. The moon collided.
That means die, right? So that's why it's very important to have very strong magnetic field in the final stage.
So you force your particle to go through your interaction point as many times as possible.
And that number is, if you can remember 300 times magnetic field.
That's how many terms particle survives in neon survive.
So if you have ten times the magnetic field survival rate will be 300 times ten 3000 turns.
That gives you enormous advantage compared to linear colliders. So collider subsystems.
Boy interesting. Interesting. Uh, cooling.
So so Vladimir will we'll have some lectures later on.
Subsystems. Um, I've suggested maybe if you have some general content you can finish up,
and then we ask students to ask some questions, bringing us to, to the essence of the school muon colliders.
So I told you several times that, you know, after many decades of development,
we figured out that muon collider is feasible and they can offer us the way to increase energy compared to,
let's see, so-called parton center of mass momentum.
Our current center of momentum energies, uh, ten times higher than LHC can provide right now.
How big are the risks? Right. So risks are twofold.
So first of all, as I said, technology determines your energy and whether you can get the energy or you cannot within certain cost.
Or you basically that extremely practical question. And there are uncertainties of the order of factor of two in cost and uncertainty of the other
factor of 30% in energy and uncertainty of the order of five orders of magnitude in luminosity.
That's again, this is broken up by pieces. Uh, later on at the workshop, I'll be given more detailed account of where the sanctions come from.
But you see how we started the center price is, I told you, neon color.
This is trick number four out of center of development of accelerators.
And over the next 20, 25 years, we need to address, of course, uncertainties in cost,
develop this technology and make sure we understand how these things work.
Of course, that will tell us how much, uh, what what is the energy reach is possible.
At the same time, we develop technologies to figure out how we can maximize the luminosity and avoid
these five orders of magnitude risks due to various subsystems of the muon collider.
Essentially, this is it. And thanks for your attention. Um, so we have some time for, uh, questions before the coffee break.
So let's, uh, let's take a few, at least.
Um, so, uh, if you're accelerating, uh, particles in a bunch of RF cavities, you care about the arrival time versus the AR phase,
but if they're being accelerated, then surely they're moving faster from, like, cavity ten to cavity 11 than, like, cavity one to cavity two.
So how come you don't have to change the RF frequency? Can you.
But yeah, you said your name. I'm sorry.
I should have said that. Um, I'm CC Hannah, and I'm a graduate student at Princeton.
Yeah. Um. Two factors.
Again, the substance is factor number one. The particles we accelerate, at least in the final stage, usually are ultra relativistic.
The difference in the speed for relativistic particles is approximately from speed of light is one divided by two gamma squared.
If your gamma is 10,000, the difference is negligible.
Now you ask, what if gamma is ten? For example, at lower stages, then with the following.
Yes, we know that because of this factor gamma squared.
Right. So uh, there is a variation. You increase the gamma, the speed becomes closer and closer and closer to the speed of light.
Uh, and frequency, uh, of revolution frequency essentially changes, uh, you tune up the frequency and phase of irfc,
which is because RFK, which is and they said, yeah, in principle, you can keep them at the same frequency, the same amplitude.
But the both, uh, frequency and amplitude depend on RF source.
So if the RF source changes the frequency or change the phase, change the the amplitude.
Yeah. You can tune up basically in synchrotron like main injector or Tevatron or LHC.
Yeah. You have a complicated system which keeps track. What is the energy and frequency.
And you tune up phase and frequency simultaneously with the particle acceleration.
Right. Not only magnets track energy but also RF system, you know, properly adjusted, you know.
Yeah. Bunch of tricks we play so far we are successful in, uh, in linear colliders.
Uh, it's again also you know, that is section one, section two, section four and section 100.
Right. Yeah. Just make sure that, uh, RF uh, RF, uh, rf, rf frequency is the same RF phase RF phrase is properly adjusted.
So particles kind of always ride the wave. There are RF wave are never comes the negative phase but always comes at a time.
For example section two has independent power supply RF power supply.
And in that power supply you can adjust amplitude and phase. Right.
It just the phase the time and always arrive in the proper time synchronization.
Uh, the biggest collider built this way is the Linear Collider again up to 50 GV.
We had no problem. All right. So this is the biggest linac linear linear accelerator built in the world 50 GV the
next next in energies the 27 GV or so 18 GV uh x if you go in Germany no problem.
At least for sequence of carriages is even easier. There is no magnetic field.
Basically send them through phase cavities.
Yes problem. Thank you. So we'll take one here and then follow okay.
Introduce yourself. Yeah. Hi. My name is Joel. I'm from University of Iowa, first year graduate student.
Um, about the sinking, actually. So that's, uh, I also had a question about that.
So because we're sending like, bunches, not just a single particle, they're obviously not all going to have the exact same energy.
So, um, now bunches do.
Oh, bunches all have the average average energy at the same because that energy is given by circumference of your machine in some sense.
And magnetic field. Remember the very first equation I showed you energy is equal to 0.3 times magnetic field in Tesla, which is super stable.
It's stable to the level of ten minus seven times radius.
And radius in LHC is super stable to a millimeter.
You have 27 kilometer long, 77 kilometer long orbit, which is stable to a millimeter or better.
Actually, it's better than millimeter, right.
So you have super stable radius, super stable magnetic field that gives you average central value of energy, super stable.
But it's average. Yeah. Central around it one GB of life is happening around 6.8 thousand GV one GB of oscillations back and forth.
Because particles are not the same they all different. Yes.
Right. So I was wondering so then in order to like are they uh are they RF uh cavities like kind
of sink up in a way so that the lower energies can kind of catch up to the higher energies.
It's like. Or is that that's one of the slide which I kind of very quickly went through.
Huh. That's a difficult cover it. But it was a greatest invention of 1944.
It's called, uh, how it's called, uh, phase focusing or basically stable acceleration in RFQ.
Just in if your in your in uh if you arrange some parameters to team.
Yeah definitely explain then it happens that automatically if you have the same RF continue basically don't change anything.
The referee facilitates the solid. You know at you know 400MHz.
But if the particle comes a little bit earlier right.
That means it goes faster than others like. Energy is like it gets decelerated a little bit.
So it comes for example one centimeter sooner. It gets decelerated by one volt or whatever.
Yeah. Right. And then it slowly gets back to the center.
And then it comes before it should come.
It gets on the left face. It sleeps. Time of arrival is such that now it's one world, one world, one wheel until it goes back.
And we continue this story 23, 23 times a second.
Back and forth, back and forth, without changing anything.
RF it's naturally happens in the arrangements of the circle of machines.
Right. It's a yeah, focus. You know, focus in effect.
Yeah. Uh, yeah. Worth of a Nobel Prize in 1944.
Okay. That's awesome. Thank you. Okay.
Um. Hi Pearce from University of Florida.
Um, what makes RC car is so much more expensive compared to magnets?
Um. Huh? Um, I think it's, uh, it's, uh, intelligence in some sense.
Cost of intelligence.
Uh, you see, the magnets consist of, uh, essentially current carrying wire, and you buy them at $6 a pound and stainless steel, $4 a pound and labor.
And that labor is mechanical labor.
You can, uh, again, sometimes it's very cheap, uh, but it's steel of the scale of, you know, between 200 to $200 an hour.
Right. If you go to China, that's why Chinese collectors appear to be much cheaper.
The cost of labor materials cost the same, right. But the cost of labor is six times the cost of labor in Europe.
Right? You go there and you build these magnets extremely cheaply.
Moreover, when you industrialize this process, it's simple enough for big industry to make it effective.
Right. So the cost of the magnet is essentially proportional to weight.
And labor intelligence is there. Right.
But it's limited in RF cavities. Uh, so you need an intelligence in the design of the cavity, maintenance of a cavity stability brain and RF power.
In this power we're talking about is of the order of like 100 megawatt of RF power should go through waveguide, which is the size of this.
Right. And you can imagine. And then there is a vacuum inside RFK.
Right. And there is a pressure some pressure outside.
You need to separate by the window. It's called RF window. This RF window is when you send 100MW of power through such a referee.
And the windows just overheat and break, right.
Besides that, you need the waveguide because all your power sources, uh, somewhere else in LHC, there are eight power supplies.
Each covers approximately what, the 3.5km. Right.
And they say God knows where. Right.
Because nobody cares that superconducting superconducting wires, they carry current without any resistance, right?
No losses. RF cavities should stay close, relatively close to sources.
Basically you need this additional gallery then like ten 20m of RF guide and then complicated piece by itself, uh, called Crestron and Kleisler.
And there's a mini accelerator.
It's a linear accelerator approximately that tall, three meters tall, with a source accelerator, cavities absorbing collector.
Uh, this it's a radar type device. And radars, you know, for for military.
You can imagine. It's a it's a it's a, it's a room to room filled with equipment to just feed one cavity.
So and all of these systems usually fail.
Right. So there's a lot of effort is needed there. So there's a lot of industry I would say it's very important to touch.
Very important question. Question of complexity right. Complexity of magnets in some units and complexity is logarithmic factor.
Right. So logarithm basically factor of one unit is factor of three complexity of magnets.
You say there's still complicated piece of work.
Complexity is equal to three in some units. Complexity of RF cavity.
One kind of cavity is approximately six.
So it's A333 factor of 30 more complex.
And that's where the brain goes. Right. And the brain costs a lot.
So material is maybe comparable. Yeah. You need just that much of copper that much of niobium.
But what is all around for example, cryogenics around superconducting cavities.
It's you pay a fortune.
So one TV of, uh, of, uh, RF system, one TV of acceleration, one tera electron warp acceleration cost 5 to 10 times more than one TV of magnets.
One do you have magnets as LHC magnets? You know, six kilometers of good magnets, right?
And one tier electron volt of RF cavities.
This is international linear collider times four, right?
It cost again. Tevatron would cost $4 billion.
Now that thing would cost $2,025 billion.
You see factor of five 5 to 10. Extremely expensive.
Uh, reasons are complexity. And you know how much mind goes into that, you know, intelligence.
Thank you. So I think we have time for one more question before we in you.
And even if you take coffee break because we are gonna. Yeah.
You can stop. And so what I suggest as we take one more, I saw one in the front and then we can take more questions after presentation coffee break.
Um, so keep hope.
Keep your questions in your head if you didn't get an opportunity to ask them after this presentation and then after Jeff's, we'll have more time.
What you can ask them then. We'll do one more thing.
Let's get. Introduce yourself. Hi. My name is Augustine from Stanford University.
Um, what's the motivation for increasing the fundamental frequency of an RF cavity?
From what I recall, LEP was around 300 MeV, uh, 300MHz.
And then I think, like slack was at 60 476MHz.
And I think the LHC is at around 500MHz. So, like you said, you can increase your ability to accelerate particles at a higher fundamental frequency.
But what are the limitations and what are the motivations for increasing that that number.
Really the previous question worth with that is intelligence.
Right. So and uh, industrialization, so many of these frequencies, particularly particle sources, uh, sorry, RF sources,
uh, commercially available because their applications, TV, radio frequencies, uh, radars and so on, so forth.
They were developed during the Second World War. They gave a boost to like a gigahertz frequencies like 2.2.5 six gigahertz,
as in metrics like frequency stand for excited the frequency because they were quite strong developed by,
uh, what the name of these brothers, Varian brothers.
Right then during the Second World War.
So the license became available that set that certain frequency as a frequency of choice, because there is a lot of industry.
Basically, instead of reinventing the sources as a physicist every time.
Right. So you basically buy them lower frequencies, have advantage.
And again, for example, if you now have Vladimir.
Yeah,
he told us that the gradients available in cavities may potentially grow with frequency or higher the frequency less time for discharge evolution.
Basically you supposed to have like the square root.
Right now it's probably one fourth power of frequency, but still teeny tiny increase of, uh, maximum available.
Maximum available gradient at higher frequencies. Only if sources exist.
Only if you have these hundreds of megawatt of its peak power of RF sources at that frequency,
you can get this gradient equation is that these sources don't exist because generate uh,
one thing is to generate, uh, like with strong electromagnetic waves at the range of, you know, 400MHz or 2.5GHz.
And now the thin case, for example, can be 30GHz for 230GHz or one terahertz.
Uh, there are no, no available sources which can deliver that much power there.
Right? They're not developed. Yes, they exist in the physics labs, but these are not industrialized.
And the cost is important factor. Right? So, yes, at very high frequencies, usually power supplies, RF sources don't exist.
Right. But they have advantage of high gradients at low frequencies.
Uh, sources do exist because there is a lot of industry.
And what makes, uh advantage for creative is, is that usually the size of the structure is larger at lower frequencies.
For example, uh, you know, 400MHz. Okay.
We just saw that big, right? So 100MHz cavity saw that big.
Right. So, um, ten gigahertz cavities have aperture of three millimeters.
Right. If your beams are small, right or low intensity.
Right. They can go through this small aperture, high frequency, uh, high frequency cavities.
If your beams are very high intensity or large size, low energies.
Right. Usually we use that that be cavities because they have bigger apertures.
They have a lot of, you know, power stored in them.
Power is proportional to gradient square multiply by volume.
Volume is large. A lot of power there for low energy high intensity applications go in use low frequency cavities for extremely high gradients.
Low intensity low power applications use highest possible energies available.
Right. So gigahertz if you have terahertz sources, would be even better.
What people use for plasma acceleration, they have frequencies even even beyond terahertz for example, and a hundred micron wavelength.
Right. So uh, and apertures uh millimeters or sub millimeters.
Right. But the gradients you can achieve again, the latest record is ten GB of acceleration and the plasma Wakefield acceleration over 30cm, ten GB.
Right.
But for for ten particles that's not ten to the 14 high energy, low intensity very high frequencies, high intensities a lot of power, low frequencies.
That's typically a rule of thumb. Yes. And again other questions will come to the coffee break.
Right. So let's break for uh, the break for uh, 23 minutes.
We should be back sharp at 11. I think Jeff, Ben and Vladimir will be.
