# Accelerator Physics Basics, Jeff Eldred

Um, so what we're thinking of, Jeff, is, if you have questions, uh, please keep them for the end.
We probably will have, uh, at least 20 minutes left for questions.
Uh, on the other hand, of course, if you need some clarifications or a typo or something, please feel free to to interrupt.
So, Jeff, please, uh. Go ahead.
Okay. Thank you. Um, yeah. So my background, um, is in, uh, particle accelerators, especially proton particle accelerators, charge dominated beams.
And then I also do a little bit on beam dynamics where it starts to get into fun topics like chaos and, you know, nonlinear dynamics.
And, um, I teach regularly at this, uh, US particle accelerator school that, uh, Vladimir advertised earlier.
So, um, again, I will show, you know, some links to that.
Um, but, um, you know, I like from, uh, effort in beam dynamics and charge dominated beams.
That's how I got into the muon collider world, especially on the proton driver side.
I'll give a talk on proton driver, uh, tomorrow. Um, but thinking about how can we, um, use the, the, uh, everything we've learned about building, uh,
high intensity accelerators and combine essentially some of the energy frontier topics that,
uh, Vladimir was talking about with intense frontier topics. And so you have a very intense, very high energy, um, facility.
Okay. Uh, so I think, uh, simplifying um, so, you know, now I'm going to talk through basically the,
the basic dynamics of how, how do you think about the stability of ring of particles in a particle accelerator?
What is math used? It basically builds on the classical mechanics that you may have.
Uh, but at the simplest level this is your particle accelerator.
That's that's a ring. You bend it around in a circle and that's so you can use your RF cavity multiple times.
Vladimir impressed upon us how expensive those are. So if you can pass around 10,000 times, then you can use the same cavity 10,000 times.
Uh, but the cost is you now have to keep, uh, your beam stable for 10,000 revolutions passing through the same magnetic elements.
Uh, so there's the, um, the dipoles, and it's just a vertical magnetic field, and it bends it in the plane.
And then there's the quadruples, which I'll talk up a little bit more about, but they play a focusing role.
Um, so first dipoles, you know, you have your basic Lorentz force.
And um, so that means that you should be moving around in a circle.
So the, um, the radius of the circle is going to be proportional to that momentum.
And um, it's going to be inversely proportional to the um the dipole field.
Um, so, uh, one of the things that we do sometimes is we calculate the particle momentum and then we multiply.
So that would be units of GeV passing. Then we multiply by 3.3357.
Uh, you know, which would basically it's a unit conversion to go to units of Tesla meter.
And so this B rho is uh, you know, it's a dipole field times event radius.
But it's also you can think of it as something that's proportional to, um, to our momentum.
And um, so then you can use that to for instance, if you know your dipole field and you know your,
uh, particle momentum, then you can easily calculate your bend radius.
And, you know, you can say, for instance, the total bending of the ring is always two pi.
So two pi rho is the total length of your dipoles. So let's do a practical example.
Here's the LHC has 12,012 sorry 1203 32 dipoles.
Each one is 15m long. But if you actually look where the like active region, it's more like 14.3m.
So that means of the 26.7km circumference, uh, 18.5km of that is dipole.
So it's about 70%. And of course we say circumference and we say ring.
But really it's a 1232 sided polygon.
Um, so now I can just do that math that I was just saying,
which is I can calculate the magnetic bending radius in the dipole and find that it is 2.8km.
And uh, you know, so if I take a dipole field, um, then that tells me what the,
uh, proton energy is, and then that tells me what the colliding beam energy is.
So now if you want to ask the question of what is the highest possible energy I can have in a circular proton collider,
um, then you tell me the dipole fill fraction, that should be about 70%.
Uh, you tell me the dipole field strength, and you tell me how long the tunnel is.
And I tell you how much bending you have to do this. So if you have for you know, FCC, they talked about doing, you know,
four times the tunnel circumference and then factor two or factor of three larger in the peak dipole field.
So if you do that you get a factor of ten and your collision energy. And you can see how the rules scale.
You either have to keep going, uh, greater and greater scale with the rings or you have to um,
you have to get better and better magnet technology so you get more bending per unit length.
And, uh, one of Davis's great overview on the technology, the critical current, the temperature,
you know, and then, uh, you also have to think about the manufacturing and reliability,
uh, not just from a cost point of view, but if you think about, uh, you're going to set the same magnetic field on all 1200 of these dipoles.
So actually your worst dipole is going to set your peak magnetic field.
So that gives you a sense of how reliability goes into it.
And then just to give you a, uh, brief comparison, you know, the normal conducting, uh, electromagnet, you know,
you have this big iron pole and you have, uh, the copper wrapped around it and it magnetize that iron.
And then, uh, that's where the magnetic field comes from. And if you look at the, you know, the, the quality of the magnetic field, you know,
the multiple components of it, it is often dominated by the exact shape of that iron pole tip,
whereas for the superconducting dipole, um, you see, they pat the, uh, the conductors as close to the beam as possible.
And that's what's actually providing the magnetic field and the iron.
Um, you know, obviously it's going to be, uh, saturated. So basically it has the role of just capturing the return flux.
So you have all this iron around the outside, but you bring your conductor as close to as possible.
So it just shows you visually the difference in magnet design from the current density that you're able to achieve.
And a little bit on how these are manufactured.
You have your your very fine filament of your superconducting material, and then you surround that in copper strands.
And actually you pack that in, you compress it, you stretch it so it ends up even finer.
You cut that, you stack it and you repeat that process. And that's how you make these superconducting cables.
The reason why you do that is you want the superconducting material to be always close to copper material.
And the reason why is what happens if one part of your superconducting material gets hot.
So a particle crashes into it and you know that one superconducting material part is no longer superconducting.
Now it's normal conducting. Now it's incredibly resistive. And so you have all this massive current going through it, this one spot that's resistive.
Then it's going to heat up even more. And so that one single point that became normal conducting will become a point of failure for the whole magnet.
So the reason why you have the copper there is now the current is going to flow to the adjacent copper, and it's like a nice orderly egress path.
So when it's superconducting it prefers superconductor when it's normal, conducting it before it prefers the copper.
And it's safer for the magnet to have a nice uniform sheet where it comes.
The whole magnet comes normal conducting at the same time, rather than these hot spots and cold spots.
Um, and so that's called the quench. And so every superconducting magnet needs to be able to safely quench, in fact,
before it even goes into the accelerator, they're going to deliberately, uh, quench it.
And in fact, sometimes the performance gets better as it quenches, sometimes it will quench many times and fail,
but many times the peak current that it can sustain will actually improve over time, essentially, as it's and don't not working out the kinks.
So it gives you a sense of the the practical things that come into this.
Um. Okay. So I kind of, I think I hope I convince you what the limits of, uh, maximum ring proton accelerators.
What's the limit of the maximum electron ring? Uh, well, you have synchrotron radiation.
So you take any charged particle, you bend it into a circle, it's going to give off synchrotron radiation, you know, um, tangent to the path.
And then so for a hadron machine, uh, it's usually pretty negligible.
You can calculate, you know, you can observe it and LHC, for instance.
But, um, it's a dominant feature of electron machines.
So if you look at the power radiated, uh, this is on a per particle basis, then you have these relative, uh, relativistic factors of beta.
So it's gamma to the fourth and it goes over rho to the squared.
Um, so all that or that you radiate in one revolution, your RF system has to restore.
So, um, that's actually what's going to set the maximum energy that electron ring can achieve is when is your RF just treading water.
And it's just restoring all the energy that's going to be radiated away in every turn.
And so if you look at the scaling of this, if you want to double the energy, then, uh,
you would have to have four times the bending radius for the same, you know, for the energy restored.
Um, and uh, so that's not a very favorable scaling.
And that's why, uh, Vladimir started talking about, okay,
linear colliders is how people started to think about, you know, electron, uh, positron colliders.
At some point you have to switch to linear technology. But then the issue that was described, which is RF, is very expensive.
And, um, since you're only using all of your RF systems once you're doing a single pass,
um, you also, um, you know, it's challenging to make it all very compact as well.
Um, so this is why, um, you know, let's say in the high energy left on collision limit,
people think we have to switch to neurons at some point sooner or later.
Um, and just, um, some more, uh, for the homework problems, some more, uh, detail on this.
You know, you have the power radiated or energy loss per turn.
It's a lot of unit conversion, making sure, you know, uh, how to you kind of remember what, uh, vacuum permittivity constant is and all this, um,
and then, you know, with the critical frequency, so also the frequency of light, it's going to get higher and higher with gamma cubed over rho.
And so, uh, with these synchrotron light sources, uh, this is where they deliberately cultivate,
you know, uh, as much radiation as possible as an X-ray source, for instance.
Um, and so, uh, you, you definitely want to think about whether or not you have experimental users for, for your light.
Um, so now for, for RF cavities.
Um, so I've mentioned this already.
Well, which is, you know what the role of the RF cavity is, is to efficiently trap an electromagnetic wave, magnetic wave at a single frequency.
Um, and, uh, so you think of the electric field oscillating back and forth, and this is why you have to synchronize with the arrival of the bunch.
So you want the bunch to arrive when it's in an accelerating phase.
Um, because, uh, if it arrives at the wrong time, you would even decelerate it.
Um, so often the longitudinal momentum, we would say, let's call it the reference momentum p naught,
and then p would be the, uh, the momentum of each particle in the beam.
So, uh, all the particles are supposed to be the same momentum, but in practice they would have some small deviation.
So then we could have the fractional deviation of momentum. And that's, that's delta.
Um, so you know, it may be, you know, from ten to the minus two to, you know, ten to the minus four or something like that.
Then you have, um, how much RF, uh, energy you put into, uh, the beam.
So you have, depending on the rival phase, phi um, how much of a kick you're going to get.
So now to think about what this is going to be as, uh, a system of equations,
um, you have to think about how does the fractional deviation of momentum,
how does the slightly higher and slightly more momentum, uh, particle affect the arrival time?
So on the one hand, you think, okay, higher momentum, higher velocity, it's going to take a shorter time around.
Uh, the ring. But uh. Oh yeah.
Yeah. That's on the next page. Okay. Um. So the change in momentum.
Yeah. So the change in momentum here. Um I'm just changing for delta units.
So you should be v over beta squared. You're not. Yeah okay.
So now here I think about the arrival time. Uh so on the one hand higher velocity means shorter transit time for the same path length.
On the other hand, higher momentum means greater beam rigidity, which means it's going to take it's going to be harder to bend.
And in general it's going to take a longer path. So for for low energy machines, uh, higher momentum means it arrives faster.
But for a sufficiently high energy machine, high momentum means it arrives later.
And, um, so this factor which takes into account both of those effects is called the phase slip factor.
Put it here is ETA. So ETA could be negative or it could be positive depending on the energy.
And in fact if you have a machine that ramps like the booster, um, it goes from negative ETA to a positive ETA.
So you're actually going to have to go through the period of time where you're focusing at one phase to a point where you're focusing another phase.
Um, but you can characterize from the lattice properties something called the momentum compaction factor.
So by choosing your layout of your magnets, you can make it so you don't have to cross from a negative to positive, uh, phase slip factor.
And, uh, this is part of the, um, you know, this would be part of the proton driver design.
Absolutely. Critical component would just be, uh, uh, sorry.
Um, to choose the this phase slip factor is going to be at the right level so that an off momentum particle is going to be having the right phase.
Um, so a linear. So depending on this essentially linearization of the momentum effect on the arrival time,
uh, you have phi dot which is should be proportional to delta.
So now I have uh phi dot is proportional to delta.
And delta dot is uh proportional to v sine phi.
And you put these together you have phi double dot proportional to sign of phi.
And this is essentially the equations of motion for a simple pendulum.
So uh what does this mean. It means that a small higher momentum particle is going to receive a kick.
So it's going to send a essentially decelerate and a slightly lower momentum particle.
It's going to receive a kick. So it slightly accelerates. So you would see.
So for a constant RF frequency you're going to have phase focusing.
And that's what's going to maintain the longitudinal focusing on your bunch.
Uh so then uh the arrival time is always going to the momentum is always going to push it into arrival time.
Or it has a phase where it gets the kick that it needs. So, uh, let's see if I can now I can't.
And then, uh, you have a characteristic oscillation frequency.
Uh, we call it the singer Tron frequency. And that would be the time it takes for, let's say, an off momentum particle to come back.
And so if you were to displace the momentum of the whole beam, you would actually see it go, uh,
lower momentum and then higher and lower and just kind of tumble in this, um, separate tricks.
Um, so, uh, inside of this separate tricks is where you have what's called phase focusing.
So you restore the bunching of the beam. But if the momentum is too high or too low, then essentially it would slip with respect to the beam.
You can think of this, uh, for a pendulum. It's going to rock back and forth for some range of angles and velocity.
But if I just throw the pivot point, the pendulum over the pivot point,
then it's just going to do laps and it's not going to be staying synchronized to the bottom.
It's just going to do laps and it's going to speed up as it goes down and slow down as it goes up.
But it's going to be at a totally different phase than, uh, anything that would just rock back and forth.
Um, so if in a stationary RF system, this would just mean that your beam debunkers,
so you have all these particles bleeding out, and now they're going to arrive at all times.
And, uh, you know, you've lost the longitudinal structure, but if you are accelerating the beam,
then you actually move to a moving reference frame and your separate tracks looks more like this.
And so any particle that is following the, uh, not staying synchronized to the RF cavity as the, uh, frequency changes is going to accelerate.
Essentially, the beam is going to pick up the energy it needs to stay synchronized to the system.
But anything that's too far out of sync, it's just going to fall behind.
So it's not going to receive net acceleration. And so you now you're going to have, you know, uh, you know, you would have an A ring.
You know, let's say you're going from uh, 50 GV to 100 GV, you know, uh, and you lose the particles at 50 GV,
you know, your magnets are going to, uh, increase in strength to match the accelerating beam,
but eventually you're going to have, uh, your magnets matched to your 100 GV beam,
or any particles that didn't receive acceleration would be lost a long time ago.
Um, so essentially, you want to keep all of your particles inside the separate tricks.
We use the terminology buckets and bunches.
So a bunch of particles that go inside the bucket, you want all of your particles to be happy in the bucket.
And you don't want to increase the longitudinal maintenance too much, because that's going to increase that.
That's going to decrease the luminosity and reduce the beam quality.
Um, so I was mentioning earlier, this Facebook factor could be negative or positive.
Um, so you have, um, some accelerating phases from zero to pi and decelerating phases from pi to two pi.
But, uh, what's going to happen is you're going to change from longitudinally focusing to D focusing depending on the sine of ETA.
Uh, so what you would want to do is you want to be right on crest somewhere here.
So you receive a combination of focusing and acceleration.
So in a linac you're not going to spend very much time in there.
You want to get the most, uh, energy per pass.
So you're going to be very close to on crest and a storage ring.
You receive no net acceleration. So you're just going to stay somewhere over here maximally focusing not net accelerating.
And your synchrotron are going to be somewhere in between depending on how rapid cycling your synchrotron is.
For the muon collider cases, you're going to be pretty high because you want to you want that beam to be going.
Um. And, uh, just for, for some interesting beam dynamics to to show you what it looks like.
This is what it looks like when you cross, uh, transition. So you have some, uh, you have some separate tracks.
That is for the positive case and for the negative case.
And somehow you have to go from let's see if I can gesture with my mouse now.
Okay. So you have to go from the, the one separate tricks to the other without losing your beam.
And so there's a loss of beam quality there. Um, some other fun longitudinal dynamics topics.
Um, so at the CERN, uh, piece, they do a bunch splitting.
So, um, Vladimir was mentioning, uh, for space charge reasons, you want, uh, longer bunch points and,
uh, uh, lower frequencies, uh, when you are accumulating your, uh, your intense, uh, proton beam.
But to get the maximum accelerating gradient, you want higher frequencies.
So what they do is at certain boost booster to the certain piece, to the space, to the LHC.
They stack up the frequencies. At some point they have to make the transition so the bunches can go to the new frequencies.
So they slowly split.
They take one RF system and one frequency, and they turn on the another ah system, and they slowly ramp down one frequency while increasing the other.
And you, you 80 basically deform the bucket to three times the frequency, then twice that frequency.
And um, so this is the technique that uh, that can come up. And again you don't want to lose, uh, your longitudinal uh, beam quality.
You don't want it to just dilute through the whole space. So you want to keep the same phase space area across all of these individual little bunches.
So here on the bottom left, that's from Jay Park. And that is when they are accumulating the particles inside the first proton ring.
Uh, they have to match to, uh, from the, from the linac.
The longitudinal beam quality is much smaller than what they're going to in their, uh, RCS.
And so they have to slowly paint essentially a wider distribution.
And they want that to be as even as possible. Again,
what they're trying to do is they're trying to avoid a peak of charge that would have a distortion free space charge effect that would cause the beam,
uh, to defocus itself. And Vladimir will talk a little bit in the next lecture.
Um, so often.
So they've also added a second harmonic to their system to deliberately distort the shape of that separate Trix to be, again, as flat as possible.
Um, slip stacking, I think, uh, doesn't have too many applications for, um, the one collider.
But I think this is just very fascinating because, uh, it was my dissertation work.
And basically you can have two beams of different momentums in the same ring, and you have two RF systems,
and so one beam is synchronized, one RF system, the other beam is synchronized to the other system.
And they have a relative difference in arrival time.
So these particles that start at different longitudinal positions they phase over each other and they overlap.
Uh, but now you've added a, um, interesting, uh, you no longer have a time independent Hamiltonian.
You have a time dependent Hamiltonian. You could call this a one and a half degree, uh, freedom system, where instead of just having energy and phase,
you now have energy phase and essentially the phase of the second half or time.
And so you get chaos, you have resonances. And these are some Poincare sections from that.
And uh, so um, there's some, some rich dynamics when trying to do some manipulations.
Something I'm gonna talk about a lot more, um, tomorrow is, um, bunch rotation.
And this is, uh, longitudinal manipulation that is actually critical for me on Collider.
Now, the basic challenge is suppose you have a bunch that naturally,
through whatever is going to be your best way to accelerate, it has a low momentum spread and a long temporal spread.
But what I want, uh, is I want all of my protons to arrive on my muon production target at the same time.
So I want as much as lowest temporal spread as possible.
Um, and that's because if you think about what survives the, um, uh, what, uh, uh, phase space,
uh, is preserved across the process of, uh, protons to scattering, to pion production, to muons.
Um, you know, if you have a very short, uh, proton pulse to begin, it's going to increase the,
the that longitudinal density, um, and reduce the amount of longitudinal cooling you have to do,
um, in your cooling channel right after, um, so you want all your protons to arrive in the target, ideally at the same time within two nanoseconds.
And let's say you have something that's more like 20 nanoseconds. Um, so what you do is this bench rotation.
So you suddenly jump up the voltage.
And here you see, um, the beam initially has a distribution that matches the contours of the low voltage, but now you've jumped up the voltage.
Deliberately, not idiomatically. And what's going to happen is those particles are going to follow the new contours,
and that's going to effectively rotate them because you change the aspect ratio.
And so the, uh, distribution, you end up at the end.
Uh, basically a quarter synchrotron oscillation is now high momentum spread, uh, low temporal spread.
And actually that goes with, uh, the square root of the voltage between,
you know, square root of V2 over V1, uh, whereas if you were to do a adiabatic,
you'd only have v, uh, to the one fourth power, which is obviously means you need a lot more voltage to make this.
Um, so now you can think about doing a simulation, and you can have all of the antiparticle interactions and say, okay,
as you squeeze these particles into, um, overlapping in the same longitudinal space, um, they're going to start to repel each other.
So what does that do to your beam quality then? You may also have a distortion.
I said pi over two phase advance away. Uh, sorry, Pi over two.
Um synchrotron oscillation. But those larger amplitude particles will have a different synchrotron tune, uh, than those inner most particles.
If you think back to the pendulum, if I have a large amplitude of oscillation, the frequency is going to slow down.
Um, so you might distort that bucket to improve the efficacy of this process,
you may have a trade off between what is the most rotation that I can achieve while keeping the beam stable.
Um, so there's some interesting questions there.
Uh, Vladimir talked a lot about superconducting RF R&D just to show you what some of these things look like.
So usually you want to maximize Q factor, which means you have the highest stored energy for the lowest input RF power.
So it's basically your your RF sources can can go further.
He talked about how expensive those are. Um, and then you also want the high accelerating gradient.
So you want to have the fewest number of cavities of the fewest length of tunnel and get to the energy that you want.
So achieving both of those at the same time, um, is a constantly, um, um, moving benchmark.
And uh, yeah. And you see these curves and, you know, they are specific to a certain frequency.
So you may get better curves at a higher frequency, but then at the cost of lower, uh, aperture, different resources, higher machining precision.
Okay. Um, so next, um, so I kind of going back and forth here between I give you the overall view of particle accelerators.
Then I gave you a deep dive of the longitudinal focusing. Now I'm going to go to the transverse focusing.
I mentioned these quadrupole magnets. Um, but uh, what is the purpose of that?
Um, so here, um, Vladimir talked a lot about luminosity.
And luminosity is so important because this is proportional to the number of particle interactions that you get.
So this is this is the number that people care about. And essentially it's density squared.
And if you think about the, the uh, 60 uh, or the 3D density, uh, uh, of each beam,
uh, density squared is what luminosity is going to be proportional to.
So now as the result of collisions or the result of muon decays or any other thing, luminosity tends to decrease over time.
And um, so really what you care about is over the course of a cycle,
the integrated luminosity, what's going to give you the most number of events, um, per cycle.
And, you know, you may have issues where at the highest luminosity you have pile up.
And this is why the luminosity leveling comes into play of, you know, like the highest sustainable luminosity or something like that.
Um, so it's natural for the beam quality to degrade over time. Uh, muons also decaying from the process.
That'll be another interesting trick to handle. Um, but, uh, ultimately, uh, integrated luminosity is the name of the game.
So part of maintaining that small longitudinal means I mean, basically you have all these, like, uh, similarly charged particles.
And so what do they want to do? They want to expand like a flashlight or, you know, um, uh, ball of charge.
Um, what want to do?
So these quadrupole magnets, what they have is to have the role of bending the particle trajectories back towards, uh, the center line.
Um, and so one of the nice things about a quadrupole is that it is a linear restoring force.
So that means the large amplitude particle has the same, uh, focusing frequency at the same focal length as the lower amplitude particle.
Um, now, the trick of Maxwell's equations, we're using transverse magnetic fields because we want to have the greatest, uh v cross B uh.
But given the way Maxwell's equations work for magnetic fields,
if you're focusing in one plane, it turns out you are also focusing and the other plane.
So, uh, this is, uh, trick. How can you do this?
Well, it turns out if you alternate between focusing d focusing, focusing d focusing, you can actually achieve net focusing in both planes.
Um, and uh, so now you have a specific layout of focusing on your, your ring.
And you have to think about how, uh, the effect is going to accumulate as you go around.
Okay. So now let's talk about the motion of the particles themselves.
I'm going to start out with something very familiar, which is your harmonic oscillator. So as I said quadrupole is a linear.
So you know, you know, your harmonic uh, linear restoring force.
You have a single oscillation frequency. You have an amplitude, you have a frequency, you have a phase.
And then, uh, you may also say, oh, I'm going to do this as action angle.
So I'm conserving the area inside my, uh, ellipse here.
I've drawn it as a circle because I normalized the axis.
Okay. Um. And uh oh.
Another thing I want to point out is if I were to sample this trajectory at some rate, um, so not matching the,
uh, the oscillation frequency, but I just turned on the strobe light and checked periodically.
Then, you know, I would find it at these various green dots here and snares there.
And, you know, it can appear to be frozen in place. It can be a period going maybe on opposite sides may appear like the dots are going backwards.
I don't know if you've heard of the wagon wheel effect, but, you know, they had these old Western movies.
They're shooting em out at a low frame rate, and it looked like the wagon wheels were spinning backwards sometimes, you know?
So, uh, the, the frequency that you're sampling this may not match the oscillation frequency.
You think, uh, just to show you where this is headed, you know, you have oscillations as you go around the,
uh, uh, particle accelerator ring, and then you're going to come back to the same point.
So are you in the same phase of your oscillation as last time you visited that same location in your accelerator?
If you are, then any errors will accumulate, and that's a resonance.
If you're at a very different phase, then they'll average out. So this is one of the things you have to think about for keeping the beam stable.
Okay. So I mentioned the quadrupole is a linear focusing force.
So uh, what we have now is instead of having um, uh, uh x dot we have x prime.
Basically what we're doing is we're keeping track of the slope of the beam as it passes through the particle accelerator components,
and as it passes through different elements, it's going to receive different focusing conditions.
So this is like a spring constant that that is changing.
So first it's focusing but it's focusing that it's nothing. And then so how can you solve this kind of system.
It's called it's called Hill's equation. Um so some trajectories are going to be bent in.
Some are going to be bent out. And what you can do is for particular element, here's just a quadrupole of some length.
I can calculate what the trajectories are going to do within just this one quadrupole.
I can start there. But ultimately what I care about is the overall stability.
So I'm going to now make this a black box. And I'm just going to say here's my input trajectories, here's my output trajectories.
And I can make a linear matrix that describes the matrix encodes all the information about what's in the black box.
And all I need to know is how the map, the inputs, the outputs.
So this is now a linear transformation. And um, uh, and as I said, the way you would define X prime, uh, is uh,
the difference between, uh, the transverse momentum over the longitudinal momentum.
So that'd be x prime.
And so nice thing about making this a linear matrix is now I can figure out what happens if I pass through a sequence of elements.
So here I've written down the transfer matrix for a drift region of length L.
Um, so if you mentally do this, you know, I'm going to change my position, but I'm not going to change my slope if I pass through this.
On the other hand, I could talk about a thin quad, which is an instant instantaneous kick to my slope.
Um, but it's, um, if it's thin, then I haven't had much time to change my transverse position.
So the position is the same, but the, uh, the slope changes.
Um, so by going between these elements and you can have a, you can have a realistic quad as well.
You can have a quad to some extent. That's just what I was showing on the page before.
Um, then you can find out what is the effect of passing through all of all of these.
And I can still multiply by x prime. And for any particular trajectory calculate what is the effect of passing through the sequence of elements.
Uh, but that's still one trajectory at a time.
And we do tracking like this.
It's important to keep track of all your particles, but you may want to get a sense of what's happening to the beam as a whole.
Uh, actually. Wait. Okay. Sidebar here. So I've only talked about one motion in one plane.
In principle, you would have horizontal position and slope, vertical position and slope.
And for these perfect idealized quadrupole, then, um, there would be totally, uh,
diagonal, uh, you know, uh, block diagonal two by two with zeros on the off diagonals.
Um, and then I mentioned this issue where horizontally focusing is, uh, vertically focusing.
So I just change the sign. But there are elements which are going to mix up your x and y.
You can have a skew quadrupole.
So if I, if I rotate my quadrupole by 45 degrees that's going to definitely mix the planes of motion or I'll that's something that we use a lot.
Um, for uh some of the accelerator applications for muons is solenoids.
So this is where you actually have a longitudinal, uh, magnetic field.
So going in the same direction as your beam, but that any small deviation that your beam has,
it's going to make it spiral around that longitudinal magnetic field.
So I'll show you what I mean, which is the blue lines here are the magnetic field.
And you may have a particle that's mostly going forward.
But any the x prime and y prime are going to interact with the field and cause it to slowly spiral around that magnetic field.
So to write down and this is just shown without proof, you know, uh, the you're going to have a effect that definitely is going to couple,
um, x prime and y prime because it's going to be going around in a circle in Z space.
So, um, just like I had a bending radius for a in-plane magnetic field.
Same thing. I would have a bending radius for this Balmer radius for spiraling around.
And it's just related to that, uh, the transverse momentum. Okay, so this is how I make sense of, uh, the health equation as a whole.
So suppose I just magically know that I would like to write down my x and x prime in this format.
Um, so I'd like something like an action, but I'd like an amplitude, which may be s dependent.
So I'm at a focusing point. The amplitude is smaller, I'm at a diverging point, the amplitude is higher.
Then I should also have some oscillation phase. So I mention I'm going to be doing this transverse oscillations in time as I go around the ring.
But also what is the oscillation phase as I go from one point to the ring?
Um, so if I put in this ansatz, then I can find that, um, there's a relationship, you know, phi equals the integral of one over the beta function.
Um, and, um, I can find that, uh, there's a solution of this form, and then I can ultimately figure out what the beta function is.
And this other factor, factor alpha, which is just beta prime, uh, as a function of this changing, focusing strength.
Okay. Uh, so if I can do that, if I can find these Alpha Beta Phi, um, then I have a very I've written my trajectories in an incredibly useful form.
So what I've underlined in green here j x and phi, those are like your action and angle.
Those are specific to one particle. And you could talk about the action and the angle anywhere in the accelerator lattice.
Then you have your beta x and your your phase advance.
And those are the same for all particles depending. But it depends on accelerator location.
So I don't need to know what the beam distribution is. If I know what the magnet layout is I can tell you what the beta functions are.
I can tell you are these magnets going down to a focusing point? Are they diverging?
What is the phase relationship between these two different locations in the ring?
And uh, so this is a modular way of describing the particle trajectories.
That's incredibly useful. And so that's why that's why we do this.
So with the two pieces of information, describe any one trajectory, uh, without if you have the beta functions,
you don't need to go back to the transfer matrices and the focusing strength of the individual magnets.
You now what you need to do, which is the linear optics parameters.
So just to give you a sense of what this looks like, you know, one particular trajectory is falling within this envelope.
And so there's uh, on the one hand is this let's see if I can.
So here. The beam is at the edge of the envelope, so it's at a phase in which it is achieving the maximum size.
But the envelope is that a beam waste. So it's not a very large amplitude.
Whereas over here, you know, the overall envelope is blown up.
And uh, then uh, the phase is not the highest possible.
But then essentially your trajectories are going to be basically taking place within this envelope, which represents the action of that particle.
So this would be a trajectory from one pass.
And then if you think about it's going to go all the way around the ring and then it's going to come in at a different phase.
And so it's going to be now sampling a different part of that envelope.
But there's still a relationship between, uh, how extreme, you know, what the phase is here and what the phase is here.
And, uh, that's the role of the phase advance. And you talk about the RMS beam size.
We define this parameter of beam quality called the admittance.
This is a sense of phase space area.
So if I take the phase space area times this beta function square root that gives me the beam sigma and real physical coordinates,
what is the footprint of that. So that's basically measuring the size of this envelope for um, you know, the one sigma particle.
Uh, so this is how we talk about beam size as well. And if I plot x versus x x prime, you know, I get essentially a tilted ellipse.
And you see this is what a Gaussian distribution looks like an x versus x prime.
And as I go through the accelerator this ellipse is going to be changing in orientation.
It's going to be focusing in down in different ways. But I have clearly a conservation of phase space area as I go around as well.
Uh, we call this that the current Snyder invariant. And at any of these locations I could switch back to I kind of normalized coordinates.
So I've talked about it's just this action angle, uh, motion times these optics parameters.
So I could do a skew and scale transformation and deform all these different locations back to a circle.
And so, uh, essentially, uh, I could get back to something like your harmonic oscillator,
uh, square root of an action times, uh, a cosine of an angle.
Um, and thinking about that, how would I relate the trajectory at two different points?
Well, I could, um, skew it. Go to normalized coordinates.
Now, between the two locations, it's just a rotation, which is the phase advance.
Then I can go back to the optics parameters at the second location.
And so I can, uh, do an inverse transformation rotation and a transformation.
And now I have a parameterization of those transform matrices I was talking about in terms of these optics parameters.
So I know the general form of all these transfer matrices in terms of its optics parameters.
Um, so this should be between two locations. But now if I were to talk about, uh, the transfer matrix for going around the entire ring once,
then I have a boundary condition, which is my betas and alphas have to begin and end at the same place.
So now I have a much simpler form for my transfer matrix. Um, I have this cosine of this phase alpha beta.
And this gamma is something we do for brevity, but it's really just a combination of alpha and beta.
And so these are known as the current Snyder parameters. Uh uh, twist parameters.
You may also hear them. You can think of them as a parameterization of those transfer matrices.
Or you can think of them as the functions which solve that Hill's equation.
Uh, both. Um, and so now I come back to this photo lattice.
Suppose I have a one turn photo.
Uh, my my entire ring is just made out of photos. Uh, sorry.
Focusing d focusing. That's what we call them.
Photos. Um, so the simplest channel you could do, which is, uh, a focusing magnet space, a d focusing, and then a focusing magnet again.
So now by looking at the properties of this transfer matrix, I can extract these optics.
I can find the phase advance I can find the beta function I can find this alpha.
And these parameters relate to the physical things.
What is the physical distance between magnets. What is the focusing strength.
Um, how strong are, uh, the magnets relative to the beam rigidity?
Um, and that, you see, I've given a specific answer for the beta function, you may ask.
Okay, I found the beta function, but what location? That I find the beta function.
Well, that's the beta function at this, uh, these end points.
So I can multiply the matrices in a different order. And then I would get something centered at a different location.
I get a different beta function.
So essentially all of these uh, you could say that the optics functions would be related by this like similarity transform.
Um, so even though this is all linear, the optimization of the beta functions, um, and the phase advances is not a trivial optimization problem.
And you can use your, you know, um, fancy solvers and, um, you can use your power.
Method and you can use for machine learning. Um, so it's actually um, because for each um, quadrupole and length which you would set independently,
it would be another contribution to this polynomial which would describe what the beta functions are and what the phase advances are.
So this is something you can now put specific lengths of magnets into a computer and do a simple linear tracking code.
And this will calculate very quickly. And so here's the beta function something I optimized.
So you can see I wanted the the beta functions to be very flat in that region because I'm going to use the same aperture limit.
And so it doesn't make sense for it to be big at one location.
And then uh, that would set, you know, all my magnet aperture has to match that one location.
Um, I uh, so the orange is focusing and d focusing quadruples.
The blue is dipoles. And you can see I've interleaved. So I've done a kind of photo like lattice but on the edges.
Um I needed that drift space. And so I actually use three quadruples at the end,
a triplet to convey the beam through that drift space where I wasn't going to be able to just do quadrupole focusing d focusing,
focusing d focusing, I had to break up my pattern.
Um, and so then the specific values, uh, this layout is actually it was, as I was saying, I used a simplex method to optimize this.
And um, uh, you know, and uh, you know, it's a, it's a, it did the job for what I wanted, but you can always design more.
Um, then I last topic, our last topic.
But the last thing I want to say about the optics here is, um, I talked about this one turn map,
and, um, essentially, uh, you can you start and you end at the same location.
So now I can think about what is the effect of an revolutions at that one thing.
And essentially I'm going to keep accumulating the rotation.
But, uh, the transformation part is just going to be constant.
So this is basically an eigenvalue decomposition of M.
And so you know, if you do an eigenvalue decomposition m to the nth power is just going to be following the diagonal.
Um so the eigenvalues are e to the I you call it nu x um or sometimes it's called q x.
This is called the better Tron tune. So this is the fundamental oscillation frequency.
And this is what I was saying is if the beta tron tune is integer,
then it means you're going to come back to the same phase every single time at the same element.
If it's, uh, 6.5, it means every two turns you're going to come back to the same spot.
Um, so some more, uh, plots of beta functions.
So this is now what, a, uh, collider optics looks like.
Uh, this is LHC ipx5. And if I zoom in on this, you see that the beta functions blow way up and then they focus way down.
And that's because to have the highest charge density for the highest luminosity, you want to basically have these as this very fine point.
And um, the but you can't have any of your accelerator magnets in that because that's where your,
your big detector is, where all that exciting stuff happens.
Um, so you need a certain distance between these focusing quadrupole, but at the same time you need to focus down to the smallest points possible.
So you need the strongest possible focusing quads.
Except it turns out that if I blow the beta functions higher, then I can focus down to a smaller point.
And so actually you need a large aperture focusing quads as well.
So for the high Lumi LHC, um, they, they switched from the uh, niobium titanium to the niobium tin or maybe have that backwards.
Uh, but um, so you blow uh, so what they actually did is they didn't, uh, they, um,
actually increase the aperture inside these quadrupole magnets so they can focus down to a tighter point.
And the other thing is, I believe they need to increase the distance between these triplets to have more room for the detector.
Um, so these are. So now you have a real interaction between the accelerator problems, the technology,
the magnet technology, the accelerator optics and the detector technology.
Um, but, um, you have some trade offs that you get to choose.
Um, just a little bit on that, uh, the beta function in any drift region, uh, would be, uh, something like this.
So you have, uh, beta star, that would be the minimum beta, and then S stars the location where you have a minimum.
So you have essentially this, this parabola and um, uh,
so then you place your interaction points in these drifts and you tightly focus and you have a minimum.
Ideally you want a minimum, uh, in both X and Y, um, and uh, uh, so it seems a little funny at first.
Why should it be something that's s squared if I'm talking about something that's just particle trajectories traveling in a straight line.
Uh, but think about the fact that x is proportional to the square root of beta x.
So there should be this should be squared because once you take the square root it's going to look like a linear trajectory.
And those hourglasses that Vladimir was drawing earlier you know, it's composed of individual linear trajectories coming in.
Um, yeah. So uh, the focusing triplets are actually, uh, so defocus, focus, defocus and one plane focus, defocus focus and the other plane.
And again you're going to achieve that focusing in both planes uh, by doing this.
Um, but uh, the, the, the way you do it is you use the D focusing to bring the beam out.
And the reason why you bring the beam out is just going to give you a bigger lever arm.
You're increasing the amplitude. So now you're actually increasing the size of the quadrupole kick that you can give to focus back down.
Um. All right, let me just check out. I'm doing all right.
Um, so I just want to talk about what you actually look at often is the beam position.
So I can have a very simple device, which is just two metal plates that are electrically isolated from the beam pipe.
And what happens is, when the beam passes through these metal plates, it leaves an image current,
and it'll leave a stronger image current on the right one if it's close to the
right and a stronger image current on the left one if it's close to the left.
And so, uh, to figure out the beam position, uh, then I just have to take the left, minus the right, divided by the left, plus the right.
That's a very simple device, but it's actually very effective for telling us.
Well, specifically, it tells us where the centroid of the beam is. So I don't get to see every individual particle with this technique.
There's a couple of other techniques we can try to see the profile of that. The beam.
Uh, but you see the centroid, you see the average transverse position and x and y.
So that gives you x and y. But I just impressed upon you how the dynamics extend into x prime and y prime.
So how am I going to do that. Well I have another bpm pi over two phase advance away.
So now I have two measurements of x and y. But the x at the second bpm has a relationship to the x prime at the first BPM.
So if I am confident in my optics between my two bpm, then I can reconstruct the full 4D position.
And so you can see here that if I plot x one versus x two for some arbitrary phase events, you know,
I get this ellipse plot like this, which should remind you of this x versus x prime plots that I was showing before.
Um, and then thinking about when does a angle become a position and a position become an angle is also very important for collimation.
And so this is a picture of the very sophisticated LHC collimation.
And so you have something that scatters the beam. Uh, it comes into the first primary kilometer.
Um, and you, uh, you don't just stop it at that first kilometer, it now scatters.
So now it's become a shower. So you need to think about where all those particles are going to shower.
And you need to set your secondary and tertiary, uh, column meters to protect your cold regions.
Because I was just impressing upon you that if you have a superconducting magnet and you put a bunch of particles into it,
you create a hot spot and you're going to cause a quench. So you don't want to do that if you don't have to.
So you want to have this warm region you see here, it's in the red.
Uh, the warm region is going to collect all the particle losses.
If you're gonna lose a particle, if it's on the outside, if it's gonna crash, you might as well lose it.
And someplace that is safe. And that's kind of the idea. You clean the edges of the beam so you don't have an uncontrolled loss at a later point.
So typically we want to reduce the number of losses. But really we want to reduce the number of uncontrolled losses.
And you have the primary uh call meter which helps scatter the beam.
And the secondary calibrator which helps catch the beam.
So I want to show you a little bit of the principle of how you typically would set your secondary km pi over two phase advance away from your primary.
And the reason why. So you scatter. That's changing the x prime.
That's changing the slope.
But if you look at something that's at one position and you just add an X prime to it, then you haven't actually changed the position yet.
You have to let it drift. It has to shower and have that effect.
So then pi over two advance and I may even go through some focusing elements in the meantime.
That's when the extreme kick that you received is going to be the maximal excursion in position.
So that's when you can bury a particle in the deepest part of the column and are not just scattering off of the surface.
Um, or you can think about if you want to extract the beam, I want to physically move the position of the beam.
I'm going to put some electrostatic element that's just going to, you know, apply a transverse electric field and or transverse magnetic field.
And I'm just going to steer it. But it still takes a certain amount of time for the beam to go.
So when I want to put, uh, my scepter, which is basically a device that separates this part,
this the magnetic field in this region from the magnetic field in this region that's going to be again, pi over two phase it it.
And so you can look at so this is just an example with that let's say electrostatic kicker.
So I put in some kick called a delta theta. And then I can find the corresponding action associated with that.
And then I can find what that action does.
Pi over two phase away at you know let's call x1 and x2.
So at x2 where does that action do. And so the displacement at that second location is going to be proportional to the size of the kick.
The beta function at the first kick location and the beta function at the location I'm now observing.
So, um, that's linear optics. That is all of the longitudinal dynamics.
But, uh, just to get into some of the more advanced dynamics. Well, I put, um, my particle beam through a dipole to bend it.
But I told you, not all the particles in the beam have exactly the same momentum.
So what's going to happen to a higher momentum particle is it's going to take this outside trajectory.
Um, so that is called dispersion.
And each particle will still undergo its better try an oscillation but around a different center.
And that orbit, that different center. That's why we call it that.
The orbit um, is given by the dispersion.
So the dispersion is another optics function which is going to tell me how much does it shift the beam if it's off momentum.
So I multiply the dispersion by the by the delta.
And that's how I shifted the beam. And that's also going to blow out the spot size if I have a larger dispersion larger beam spread.
Because essentially the particles of different momentum are now at different transverse positions.
Now you may have chromaticity. So I have a same concept here.
I have a quadrupole. But the focal length is not going to be the same for all particles.
And so the the beater on tune is not going to be the same for all particles.
So the chromaticity is just the dependance on the beta tune on uh delta.
So it's a linearization of that dependance.
And um, that's going to be proportional to the beta function and the focusing strength.
So now I have sometimes particles have the wrong position depending on momentum.
And sometimes they have the wrong, uh, tune depending on momentum.
So how can I fix this? What if I want all my particles to have the same tune?
Or at least I want to control what the tune dependencies? Um, on, uh, momentum?
Well, that's when you would introduce your higher order magnet. This is why you would put in accessible so secs to pull.
You can think of it as a focusing lens on one side, a D focusing lens on the other side.
So I have the dispersion is going to sort my particles by momentum.
And uh pull is going to provide a tune shift depending on position.
And so you use X to Paul to restore, um, uh, your uh, particles to all have the same tune.
So, um, chromaticity control and having sectionals throughout the ring is an essential feature of accelerated design.
Um, so it's something that we need to have as well. Um, and then you can use this idea that you have to focus the beam.
At some point, you're probably gonna have something photo like, even if it's not exactly a photo,
and you get some estimates of what are some natural parameters.
So the chromaticity, the natural chromaticity, the uncorrected chromaticity is approximately minus the tune.
Uh, the average beta is something like the radius of the whole ring divided by the tune.
You know, uh, the dispersion is going to be even more heavily suppressed by the tune,
because the more closely I interleave, uh, those quadruples that the greater the dispersion suppression.
And then this, uh, transition gamma, the energy gamma in which I would have transition crossing from negative,
uh, phase factor to positive phase factor.
It's also related to the dispersion around the ring, because I mentioned that larger momentum particles take a longer path.
So that's directly as a result of dispersion. But I can calculate essentially a ballpark all of these parameters based off that simple model.
And uh, one of the reasons why is so important to have that is you think about something as complex as the muon collider is,
we are designing and a whole accelerator chain, and each part you kind of have one person design the whole thing as a fully formed vision.
So they need to take for granted some parameters while they're designing some other parameters.
And I think that's why it's so important to have some common reference parameters.
You can change them later if that's where the optimization leads. But you can't optimize in a vacuum.
Um, because all these pieces need to be part of a self-consistent story,
and they need to think about how you don't just want to take the problems that you're experiencing and shove them to the next,
the next, uh, accelerator down the chain. You have to think about how you optimize the performance as a whole.
So, you know, target luminosities.
Uh, you know, I was talking about, you know, what is the peak magnetic field that's going to determine, uh, what your colliders, um, energies can do?
What the, um, what the bending radius can be. Um, how many muons are you going for?
Uh, what is the emissions parameters that you have to maintain as you're passing through all these elements?
All very important to keep in mind. Um, so I'm coming up on my summary.
I actually had one more topic I want to I'm going to I'm going to do one more topic before I come in,
which is very briefly talk about Metatron resonances.
Um, so Vladimir, uh, showed this this idea that where are you in your, uh, phase oscillation when you come to the same point?
Uh, so just like you can see how a integer would end up accumulating phases in the same direction,
if you think about the interaction between a quadrupole IR and a,
uh, betterthan tune, that's a half integer slice 6.5, then you're going to accumulate errors in the same direction, uh, from quadrupole as well.
And as you can guess, are going to be, um, if you are tune is 6.333,
you're going to have problems from six poles unless all your saxophones are tuned up.
So you would have a tuned diagram like this where you carefully pick your beta channel tune to avoid nearby resonances,
or if the resonance you can avoid, then you have to carefully compensate that resonance to improve your beam quality.
And so I can't avoid putting sectionals in because I need to control my chromaticity.
But now that I've put my six and I have to think about how they are tuned, um,
and if you only had one tune for one particle to worry about, this wouldn't be so challenging.
Um, but you have a finite space that you're being takes up in tune space because space charge that the interaction of the beam with itself,
that's going to cause a spread in frequencies in the transverse nonlinear magnet.
So sexy. Pulse ox, pulse chromaticity. So all of these things spread out your tune,
and you can calculate the strength of these resonances by thinking about how the strength of
each magnet and the phase advances between them contribute to a specific thing that's advanced.
But just to let you know that it is part of the more sophisticated aspects of lattice optimization.
Um, but just to give you a very simple example, if I know I'm going to put saxophones in my ring, I might put them at pi phase advance away,
because then that will just naturally contribute, uh, cancel the contribution to the third order resonance.
And if I use a bunch of sexual pairs, pi phase events, I might put those pairs high phase advance away.
So whatever doesn't cancel from the pi. Well said.
B cancel the next level. So thinking symmetrically and thinking very carefully about how, um,
errors at different phases accumulate is something you have to, uh, that comes up for these, for these larger rings.
And if you don't, you have these phase space distortions. So this triangle shape distortion, that's a third order of resonance on the right there.
That's, uh, fourth order resonance that was passed through.
So it starts this cloverleaf shape, and then you end up with particles and what's called halos, these outlying particles.
That's bad because we want charge density, and we don't want to have to lose particles at the edge of the beam.
And then a second order resonance, a very low powerful quadrupole resonance.
And in the bottom left. And I believe this one is caused by space charge itself.
So now over time, you will smooth those out because your beam is going to follow the phase space contours.
Um, but it's essentially want to have the effect of diluting your beam quality.
And that's called the, uh, nonlinear decoherence. Okay.
So now now I, I'm happy to say that's the end of the summary.
So I gave you what is usually A2A course or at least a one week course an hour.
So if you got 30% of that you're doing great. And that's why we put all these links.
So that's okay. I can geek out about this. Um, this is not to scare you off.
Um, so we learned about hell's equation. We learned about this transfer matrix.
We learned about these current smilers. So if you take away someone says beta functions high, that means the beam is big, beta functions low.
That means being small. You got all these higher order effects that you have to think about once you get past the first pass lattice design.
Um, so it's something that is art. It is, um, uh, theory.
It is simulation, it is experience. And increasingly it's machine learning and optimization tools.
Um, so there's all of these things go into this, um, optics engineering.
Um, so thank you. Thank you.
Jeff. Uh, this is the best time.
Now for questions. Hi.
Uh, my name is Angie. I'm from University of Chicago, and I was wondering, so when you were talking about bunk splitting.
Yeah. Um, in in that case. Right. If we were to try to, like, for example, for me on Collider, there's a stage at which we merged these bunches.
And so I'm assuming I don't know if this is actually true, but, um,
the more bunches that you've split your initial bunch to, the harder it might be for to merge all of those.
Um, yeah, in at least the time. Like the amount of time we need them to be a singular bunch.
In that case, how do you decide how many bunches you would need for any type of, uh, change of our frequency or any type of.
Yeah. So, um, yeah, this process takes few milliseconds.
I would say so. It can't. And, um, obviously, the more time you have for it, the more adiabatic it can be, and therefore the more reversible.
So you can do exactly this process in, in reverse.
But yeah. Um, so for the, it has to do with the specific, um, uh, ways that the um,
CERN accelerators work out because they step up the frequency as they go up the rings.
But it also means, um, that, uh, the ratio between the ramp rates and the circumference, it means that, um,
they don't fill up their rings, so they, that SPS has to start accelerating to go before, um, you know, the can fill it up.
And so that's why they can now you can split it into, you know, into multiple, um, and um,
so you do if you, if you just look at this process like if this was the last thing I did before colliding,
I would lose luminosity on this process because I'm reducing the the charge density at each of these points.
And I'm having more bunches, um, more tiny bunches, but I think I would lose out in that.
Um, so I'd say this is, this is something it may come up and the process of accelerating the beam can come up in that, uh, the proton side.
I don't know that it would come up on the muon RCS side.
Um, you would just want to, um, make sure you have enough acceleration to match your magnet ramp.
Um, but it's bad for, uh, coming off, so you would just merge.
Um. Hi.
My name is Joel. I'm from University of Iowa. Um, about the twist parameters and the beta functions.
So you said at the very end, uh, the greater the beta functions are, the bigger the beam is.
Uh, and we, uh, there was several slides about optimizing this beta function.
Right. So we want to get the biggest being possible to increase the luminosity.
Is that um, or not quite. Uh, so, uh, say, if I can show us, um, yes.
Right before so specifically. Okay.
So specifically here, the collision point is right there where the beta function is very small.
So you have to, um, blow up the beta function only, uh, as a side effect for your trying to squeeze it down to the smallest point.
Um, generally speaking, you're happy if the beta functions are small, because if the beta functions are small, it means the beam size is small,
which means the the the aperture can be small, which means or magnet can be small, which means you save money.
So um, so typically you would want to beta function small, but to get a really small beta function everywhere,
the only way to do that is to tightly interweave your quadruples.
So you're constantly doing focusing, refocusing, focusing D focusing means more magnets.
It means more complexity.
You need a certain distance between your magnets because there's there's the coils and everything, and there's a vacuum flanges and all of that.
So it's kind of a balance between, uh, that the complexity and that the aperture, um, in general.
But for that point specifically, um, your it's going to go your beam sigmas are going to be proportional to the square root of beta times admittance.
So small beta means small sigma, which means good density.
Okay. So the purpose of maximizing like optimizing is so that you can like decrease at the very end.
Yeah. That's okay. Until unless you get really used to staring up this like transfer matrices and it might not make sense.
So that's probably why I, I just, uh, set it as an article frame.
Okay. Okay. Thank you. She's just passed it down for me.
Okay. Thank you.
Uh, my name's Dominic. I'm with, uh, Purdue University.
Um, I was curious at the very end you touched on it, but, uh, the tuning diagrams you have, like.
Oh, yeah. Several, several parameters that are kind of going in there.
And that's mostly to determine, like where along the accelerator you're positioning those or so it,
um, you're deciding what your transverse focusing is.
And actually you're, you're deciding the fractional part.
So if I had a tune of 6.75, that means that I've done six and three quarters oscillation as I've gone around the ring.
But what's going to really matter is that .75 part, because it means that, um,
I've got a three quarters remainder and it means every four revolutions, I'm going to come back to the same phase space oscillation,
which means if I had a far outlying particle, let's say it far to the right, and it picked up an error,
then four turns later, it would encounter that same error and it would be kicked in the same direction.
So if I have an irrational number, then I would an average out and I end up in a different phase every point.
But if I have a rational number, then I will have some resonance that I will encounter a certain number of integer times.
I will come back to the same point. And um, so it depends on how much error you accumulate in that time.
And the lowest order resonance is your integer quadrupole.
Those are the most dangerous.
The higher order ones are less dangerous, one, because you're less likely to have a magnet with those properties because they were you know,
you're talking about like a dough decouple and might just be like the error component of an other magnet.
Um, although they, they do use some to take a pulse.
But anyway, because, you know, the higher magnets tend to be more specialized and, um, they tend to be more on a case by case basis.
Um, so, uh, I hope that helps answer a little bit more.
That's related to like the, the fractional component. Yeah.
So your you can think of this as showing your fractional x versus your fractional y.
So you're operating on a specific point. So I can make a small tweak to my quadrupole I'm going to change where I am on my diagram.
I'm not going to change very much else on this.
Because if my my tune is 6.67 and I want to change it to 6.68, and, you know, it's a small it's not going to you're not going to see it every well.
So in practice we just think we have a couple quadruples which we tune.
And then we get to choose where we we're on this diagram.
Got it. Thank you. Hi, this is Greg from Yale.
Can you go back to the slider? You drive this solution to Hill's equation?
Sure. I think there might have been two. Is the first. Yeah.
I, uh, I went through quickly, so. Yeah. Yeah, I'm gonna ask a broad crowd question here.
Yeah. Yeah. So there are these three assumptions.
Can you remind me what the physical interpretation of these and maybe whether it's required for an analytical solution?
Yeah. So, um, I just did the expression for x and x prime.
Kind of like as an, as an on sides.
Um, you can do, you can derive this in a more rigorous way where you make fewer assumptions and then find you need something like this.
Um, so, uh, beta is related to the amplitude of, uh, the oscillation.
Um, but, you know, you have a separate action.
So it's related to the amplitude of the oscillation at this particular location.
Um, alpha is beta prime. So it is how beta is changing.
So if I'm focusing down to a point, then I'm going from a large made at the small beta.
So I have a negative. Uh, so I have a positive alpha. Um, and uh, so that essentially has a, uh, a tilt in the ellipse.
So there's now a correlation between x and x prime, because all of the higher, uh, amplitude particles are being focused down more,
um, and then phase advance the phase of oscillation between two points as, uh, related to the beta function.
So here the phase advance I started out with it being I just some phase, some beta.
But what I found in order to solve this differential equation,
you can plug this in and find out that the phase advance is has to be the integral of inverse of the beta function.
And uh, so that means like if I'm squeezing down to a point, I would have a large phase advance just in that, that interval.
Um, and if I have a photo lattice where my beta x and beta wire bouncing around,
it means I would advance my x face, that my face that my x face and my wife has.
And then, uh, share this alpha, uh, this last equation says how that relates to k.
So alpha is just being defined as beta prime.
For convenience I could just make it beta and beta prime uh phase.
And those last two equations are I just as. Result of plugging in to hell's equation and and constrain what what you have to do.
Okay. Thanks. Yeah that helps. Go ahead.
Hey, um, so I noticed that there was a slide earlier where you had alpha set to zero.
What is the physical implications of that? Yeah. So that would mean that I'm neither focusing nor, uh, otherwise I'll show it.
So here I've set up my photo lattice, um, where I'm in the center of one quad.
So if I have a focusing quad, a distance D focusing and then distance of focusing,
um, I could start at the end of one of those, but that would be like not symmetric.
So to make the math easier and cleaner I split one of these quadruples in half and I set half a focusing quad,
then a distance foldy focusing quad, then a distance, then the other half.
So right at that half I'm going from the beam being defocused to the beam being bent back down.
So right at that halfway point alpha is zero. So it means the beam is neither being focused nor d focusing.
But it's kind of like the top of a parabola. So, you know, in just a little bit downstream of that it's going to be focused.
Hi. I'm writing from University of Wisconsin. So I was wondering if, uh,
you could put these optical instruments in the beginning part of the collider where we are still collecting
most of the pions and muons and most of the particles are still bound and they haven't decayed.
So, you know, so that we could just focus the beam from the emission part itself so that we don't have to focus it again.
After the decay. I'm sorry. Can you repeat the question?
Can you put these optical instruments in the beginning part of the collider, where the part most of the particles are still found, so that.
We have already focused the particle beam entering the further channels.
Yeah. So unfortunately, as you go along the length of the accelerator, you have to keep focusing because if you stop focusing,
you're going to have trajectories which are just kind of kind of diverge.
But there is something like what you're talking about. Um, that reminds me of I don't know if it's an answer your question,
but for making neutrino beams, neutrinos don't have charge, so you can't focus them.
What you do is you very intensely focus all of the charged particles before this.
So you use either solenoids or these focusing horns, and you keep your pions, your cans and your muons going vaguely in the right direction.
You have to do a charge selection, um, and um, and you have to do some sort of energy optimization.
But then when those decay, then the neutrinos are going to be going in that direction.
So if I have a pion beam, I absolutely have to capture my pion beam.
I have to focus it. So that way when it decays into muons I'm going to get a better behaved muon beam.
By focusing my pans I couldn't neglect my pions and I can't neglect my muons.
But together I'm going to put everything in the same direction. Thank you.
Um, I actually have a question. So, um, when thinking about tuning the beam or something along these lines,
could you talk about some of the the like challenges in design that aren't covered by these
equations and also challenges in operating a beam like setting it up or operating it,
actually doing the tuning just because I have no idea what it's realistically like.
Sure. Um, I can talk about some of those factors. Um, so I my day job is to work on the booster.
So it's an operating machine. And we're thinking about this Pip to upgrade. So, um, some things that you may have to think about.
Um, as we have some extra RF cavities. So if one of the RF cavities go down, we can still get the acceleration that we need.
Uh, we can't really do that with our magnets. If the magnets down or down.
We got to make sure that we can design the magnet so it can be pulled out and replaced quickly.
Um, as you go around, um, if I lose my particles, I'm creating radiation at that location.
So I'm running into a beam pipe or absorber or something, and I'm activating that.
I'm turning it to something radioactive.
And that means that residual radioactivity is something the work person is going to encounter when they go to fix the magnet or the RF.
So we have our radiological limits as we go around.
And no matter how safe you are or not safe you want to be, you have to set the limit someplace, which means you can't lose every particle.
Which means if you're going to lose particles, you want to lose them safely. Um, in a column or an absorber.
Um, so I mentioned the quench limit, which obviously would be for superconducting,
but for, you know, your, your proton side, it's going to be the activation limit.
It's actually going to be um so redundant components activation.
Uh, there's a lot of special regions where you may need diagnostics.
You need injection, you need extraction. So you need a lot of space real estate for these extra things.
And um, you know, I say in the early days of particle accelerators, they focus very high, much on high degrees of symmetry.
Like, let's have a, you know, the booster supposed to be 24 repeating periods so that it would help all the objects.
But then they kept on being things where they have to break the symmetry to have some component that needed to be there for operational purposes.
So now I think the focus is a lot less on that. A lot of the future proton drivers are like racetrack designs.
So symmetry at best two. And you have injection on one side.
So you might not even have two fold symmetry.
Um so I guess those are some of the things that we, uh, we think about, which is like repairability redundancy, uh, keeping your,
your activation, I think tunnel real estate is another thing that you think about a lot, which is what is the physical size of things.
Can you not only have the physical science, but can you have a cart? Let's say I need to replace a magnet and then I need a cart.
Has a magnet on it to go past the other big magnet. Um, so whatever size you build things, you always wish later that you built it.
But, uh, and, uh, so, yeah.
So those are some of the things that come up and then in the sort of design process.
Yeah, none of these components are perfect, right? Dipoles or quads or whatnot.
What kinds of um. What kind of work is needed to make sure you can account for that in the eventual collider?
Are there are there scenarios where in simulation everything looks perfect?
And then we've built, uh, booster and there's some issue?
Yeah, absolutely.
Um, so this is constantly a thing where, um, uh, if you are designing the ring, you haven't seen all of the things that go wrong with that.
So you're going to be overoptimistic for a really old machine like the booster.
It's very hard to model because there's so many on model aspects, but usually for a new ring that they then have experienced operating like atoms.
And, you know, that's that's a ring that's understood very well.
So all these interface to the other things, you may have a like comprehensive electromagnetic model of your magnet.
So here it's just like one number which is what is the bending. You know, what is the bending angle.
Um, but in fact you would have a fringe field. So you have some falloff distance for your thing.
You may have, you have uh, multiples. Um, so like typically you would have errors.
So every dipole will have a sexual in it weekly. And the question is how strong is that.
Because it's the next odd multiple. Um sometimes we define that good field region.
So within this region the dipole quality is to 1% or something like that.
And then that is something that I can do in the simulation and say okay, if we do that that'll be good.
And I can pass that on to the magnet designer and they can tell me, yes, we hit, we hit that spec.
So the good field region may be smaller than the the pipe aperture.
And one good way to get good field is just build a bigger magnet.
But of course it's cost and um, and simulations for studying these resonances and things I often do,
it's very common to deliberately introduce errors and just say,
I'm gonna put a random 1% error and show that my lattices is robust to that kind of thing.
Um, so it's constantly, um, and back and forth between the engineering, though,
you know, you're thinking about how much real estate did I leave for the RF,
and then you actually build the RF and you say, oh, this is flange, and you actually need more.
So just generally putting spaces between components,
modeling errors and then anything you can think of going wrong saying that your, your, your lattice is robust to it.
But often the challenge is picking the right thing to obsess over,
because you could spend a lot of time on some obscure edge case when some much lower level thing is going to be what kills you.
Any other questions? One more. Okay.
Yeah. Why you. I just say I operate a lot on precedent.
I look at what has been achieved at an existing accelerator, like Aces and Jay Park and extrapolate from that.
It gives me a lot more confidence than saying, well, it worked in the simulation because.
Uh, hi. Um, I just had one more question, and you kind of touched on this, uh,
but I was kind of wondering the difference, like, why would you use, for example?
Um, so in a photo lattice. Right. You have to do this focus in defocus.
Yeah. Uh, whereas in the case of solenoids you actually get to kind of do both and right together.
So what are the cases in which a quadrupole and using this photo, uh, lattice is more advantageous than using.
I that's a great question. Um, so generally speaking, um, there's a um, essentially the, um, I'm say,
if I see if I can say this correctly because you're using transverse focusing with your quadrupole, you have basically more power.
You get to bend your beam and more for the same magnet field strength.
So you need a very powerful solenoid in order.
But then because the focusing is kind of weak, it also needs to be a very big solenoid.
Um, but yes, it has the advantage of um, you're focusing in both planes simultaneously.
And you can also you have a specific focal distance in mind for your quadrupole.
So it's much better at capturing multiple species or multiple momentums.
So you have a production target.
It's going to go immediately into a solenoid because you want to capture all the variety of things that come in there and you need it to.
It's diverging rapidly, so you urgently need focusing in both planes.
You just a quadrupole,
you'd be blowing up in one plane and you'd have challenge at some point your cooling channel you would probably switch to quadrupole.
And exactly when you should do that. You know, also at the source, the very beginning part where we have a very low energy beam and we're starting it,
you start out with solenoids, then we start moving into the quadrupole.
Um, so it has, it has its uses. Um, but you have to have both.
Oh yeah. I was going to follow that up with, like, would a hybrid system be possible?
But I think you're already like hybrid of, like maybe using quadruples in certain areas and then.
Yeah. So if you combine a quadrupole and a solenoid you end up with this helical channel.
So I know there's some cooling channels that do like a weird little spiral.
Um, I can't speak to the exact optimization trade off of that, but that's I think that's the idea.
Thank you. Okay, maybe last question from CC and then we break.
Um, so you mentioned in the beginning that you, uh, want your protons to hit the target, um,
with a very low time spread so that you don't get this, uh, longitudinal admittance later.
Um, and I wanted to ask, how hard is it to focus longitudinally,
since I know that there's so much emphasis on the transverse focusing right now for a muon beam.
Why do we make that trade off?
Yeah, the longitudinal thing is that's something kind of, um, how do I say traditionally the intensity frontier for neutrino beams.
They don't care so much about that longitudinal thing. So for neutrino beam it would be microseconds.
So the booster extracts two microseconds. And the main factor it's like ten microseconds.
Um, and uh so those are longer but we want two nanoseconds.
This is a factor of a thousand reduction. The advantage that we're going to do is we're going to go to higher energy.
So we accumulate charge in the booster right now at 400. And maybe, uh, later it's going to be 800 MeV when we have a new linac.
But for the proton driver we talk about five HV.
So at that very relativistic energy it suppresses space charge.
And so now you can take your two microsecond. It goes with gamma squared.
So I can now try to take my two microsecond beam.
But this is why the bench rotation is actually so important. Because I can't sustain a two nanosecond beam for very long.
So I'm going to take a 20 or even 80 nanosecond meme, and then I'm going to compress it.
And then it's only going to be for a very short period of time, all that charge piled up on top of it.
So I need to verify I can complete the punch rotation process, extract it, send it into target that doesn't the bunch by the time I get to the target.
Uh, you know, our preliminary estimates is somewhere, somewhere near those few nanoseconds is achievable,
but it's actually an active area of R&D, which is how to do this better,
and making sure that we're thinking about all the things that could go wrong, because the beam wants to propel itself longitudinally,
but also I pile all the charge longitudinally and it wants to repel itself transversely.
So, uh, it's, uh, it's just something that we have to think about.
Thank you. All right. Let's thank Jeff again.
Okay.
