# Accelerator Physics Basics II, Vladimir Shiltsev

Yeah. Thank you. So we continue and we go up and up and up in complexity.
So the first one was we figured out that we need RF fields, electromagnetic fields.
We need magnets. Then Jeff explained that we should properly arrange to know how we how we build accelerators,
how we put our objects together that particles stay more or less within where they're supposed to stay in order to get accelerated.
So and that by itself, uh, consumes like 80% of energy and money, uh, when it comes to building accelerators.
But when it comes to performance of accelerators, we go up in complexity, which usually associated with intellect and,
uh, usually things which I'll explain today very briefly, will will be about why accelerators rarely work.
Well. So because something happens all the time and that's about complexity of things.
Uh, we'll talk about uh, effects, which uh, uh, can be separated into forms.
One that's called we call them collective effects. I told you, there are billions and billions of particles we usually operate with,
sometimes more than one beam, many, many bunches and so on, so forth, so collective effects,
uh, like beam beam effects, which effects in others and in coherent effects and coherent effects means collective,
uh, coherent when things kind of move together.
Either way, um, well, another will get get excited together in coherent when something happens on the level of individual particle.
But it can be driven by, by, you know, forces of collective effects like beam.
Okay. Anyway, so effective, important beam effects, uh, what we learned over 60 years of colliders particular, uh, many.
Right. First of all, uh, effects called beam beam effects.
Just learned the language and jargon, space charge effect, instabilities, collimation,
cooling, diffusion and terbium scattering beams, travel polarization, synchrotron radiation.
Um, if you go to US particle school or student accelerator school, yeah, there will be on average, it's between 15 to 32 sometimes for the topics,
uh, and all topics are important because as I told you, it's about why accelerators and colliders are such a complete.
And basically they don't work every so often. And very often they don't.
Right. So, uh, but for you to understand that the basic fact that beams are just it's a collection of charges, beams are collections of charges.
And for other charges in the same beam, in the same bunch or opposite beam, opposite bunch.
Uh, this collection of charges kind of generates, uh, you know,
potential for interaction if you have many charges in one beam and many a lot of charge in other beam,
the forces between two beams one way or another can be extremely high.
Right. And this force is transversal, in which you can also affect the particles in, in the beam or bunch itself.
Right. So there are forces on itself called space charge forces or fields and impedances.
You can jargon, words, impedances. And there are forces on opposite open and in case of collide colliders.
So uh, the forces exerted on the opposing beam, proton beam number one collides with beam being in effect.
And the this effect is related to the charges occurrence in the in the beam.
Some bunches, uh, resulting in the limits for present and future colliders.
And the very important that this effect for high density beams when the intensity, sky and beam size are very small.
And that's exactly where what we want when we talk about luminosity.
For luminosity you need high intensity and small size.
So and that's that's what beams usually don't like uh, especially when beams are large collections of charged particles.
So uh, electromagnetic forces in the beams.
Let's start with the self beams. Right. So, uh, typically our beams are very well I would say directed.
And that's actually advantage. That's what makes beam physics dedicated or separated.
The field of uh, of research is a unique objects from terms of view, you know, of,
of physics, uh, high energies, uh, sometimes high currents and very directed.
So, uh, and for, for example, for beam of particles moving in one direction.
There are forces generated by every particle.
Uh uh. And these forces include the electric force. Particles are charged electric force and magnetic force.
And they. From simple electro magnetic rejection.
Right. So the magnetic field of, uh, of a particle going along the straight trajectory, uh, is proportional to the electric field.
It just electric field is, for example, if you have a line charge, right, the electric field is radial.
So it goes transverse, right. Mostly for, especially for relativistic beams while magnetic field is azimuthal.
So it's uh, if the current goes this way and the magnetic field is and beta theta is equal to beta uh,
relativistic factor velocity divided by c times the field electric field.
So the same charges again very basic facts, same charges do repel each other.
Right. But the same currents attracted each other. Right. Opposite charges attract each other.
Opposite currents. Uh, is it correct?
Repel each other. Right. So. Uh.
Force due to the electric field is nothing but charge times the electric force.
In that case, radio charge due to the, uh, due to the magnetic field is.
Of course, you remember this rule, right? So velocity magnetic field gives you force, right?
So magnetic velocity times magnetic field gives you the force.
The velocity is better. Magnetic field is b b is proportional to bit that you are.
So the the point is that magnetic force generated by this charge uh is minus beta squared.
Because, because they, they can attraction and the repel.
Repel is opposite direction minus beta square of the electric charge electric force.
So very basic fact two charges repel each other to currents, attract each other.
Right. So what happens qualitatively it all comes to the balance of these forces.
So each particle in the collection of this billions and billions of particles in your body or your beam,
so, uh, you know, feel the forces you have, particle one goes in one direction.
For example, let let the charge to be plus two.
Right. And the current of course will be plus j, right.
So Q and J current and uh sort of current in charge, another particle, for example, if it's negative charge minus Q.
Right. And it goes in this direction, that's a colliding regime.
Right. Colliding colliding beams. Right. For example mu plus mu minus right.
Charge is minus but current velocity is minus but the current is plus.
You understand that right? So current is charge times velocity.
Velocity is opposite. Charge is opposite minus minus gives you plus plus current and plus current.
So the total uh electric force between these two charges attracts each other because negative charge attract when they come nearby.
Right. Uh, the charges attract each other due to the electric force and magnetic force,
because it's plus charge and plus current and plus current also attracts each other.
So two fields in this configuration double up.
Right. So, uh, if, if the opposite charge would be the same the opposite the opposite particle would have the same charge as a as the first one.
So charge two is positive. Then current will be negative because velocity and this two forces will cancel each other.
Right. So uh electric and magnetic field would repel each.
Uh, both. Let me see. Electric field repels.
Magnetic field repels. So basically both forces repel.
Basically they add up, but not for attraction.
They add up for for the now they repel each other basically twice the the force of uh, uh, repelling each other.
So in the this effect is called beam. Beam. When two beams are brought together at the velocities opposite velocities,
no matter what you do, no matter what the particles are negative positive negative negative,
positive positive,
the electric and magnetic forces add up either in the direction of bringing them together or in the direction of repelling them from each other.
So this is a beam bear effect. Space charge is in other configuration when both particles one and two go in the same direction.
For example, in the same beam of say, protons charges,
positive charges positive current is positive current and positive electric force between positive charges pulls them apart.
Magnetic force, because the currents are the same, uh, attracts them.
But remember that magnetic force is minus beta square of the electric force.
So the result is electric minus beta square electric gives you electric force divided by gamma square.
So the relativistic factors matters a lot. At very high relativistic factors gamma is very high.
Say for example for say GV proton gamma is handled right.
So one over gamma squared is one over 10,000. So the forces cancel each other 2.01%.
That's that's the only force that's lead that's left. So basically this force is uh almost negligible at energies say ten 1020 GV uh,
for protons for example, or above it basically for gamma is more than like ten, 20, 50.
Right. But if gamma is one, for example, you have quantity maybe proton and another hundred proton.
And they go together,
they repel each other like help because magnetic force which kind of compensates electric one doesn't exist but is equal to very small number.
Right. So only only electric fold repair repels the particles.
And that's what generates space charge forces. When the two same type particles go in the same direction close to each other.
Right. So. The third arrangement is when you have just a single beam, but there is a disturbance nearby.
So, for example, even the simplest one assume that the beam goes in the metallic vacuum chamber, right?
It's a metal. You can imagine it's a flat, for example.
Around doesn't matter. So the beam goes around, uh, above the metal surface.
Right. So charges plus current is plus G.
So and we know that due to the electromagnetic force, basically the boundary conditions of electromagnetic forces,
uh, the image current and image charge appear kind of magically right in the, uh, in the, in the, in the metal.
Right. So and that's equivalent that the same distance, but in the material in the surface of material,
you have negative charge still moving in the direction.
It means the current is negative because current discharge times velocity velocity is the same but charge is opposite.
So negative negative current goes in that direction.
So uh and electric forces between these two charges does the same thing.
They, they attract each other. But, uh, magnetic, uh, magnetic force, uh, repels each other because the currents are opposite.
Right. So and again, this forces the balance of this force now strong depends on, uh,
whether the boundary conditions for magnetic forces, magnetic fields and the electric fields are the same, and they are not.
What's important, for example, even the simplest configuration you have, a conductive surface now usually takes stainless steel in the vacuum chamber.
Right. In the stainless steel, the conductivity of stainless steel is is not infinite.
Right. And because of that, electric field ends exactly on the surface of the metal.
While magnetic field boundary condition is equivalent that the kind of, uh, the effective surface is, uh, skin depth below the surface.
Right. So that makes a kind of a little teeny tiny imbalance between two forces.
And even if the particles are super relativistic, like you, a gamma 10,000 doesn't matter.
But the electric field and magnetic field now unbalance because boundary conditions are disturbed by this conducting surface skin depth,
delta and difference is proportional to the delta divided by kind of distance to the beam.
So the force is g. Focusing basically repels from the from the surface.
Differences attract due to the skin effect, and the force is proportional to this delta divided by r.
Even in the simplest configuration, when everything is smooth, uh, the the effects are kind of, you know, very, very visible.
You know, this could be a kind of from now ten microns and this is like ten millimeters.
Yeah. That's a ten minus three effect. Really, really big effect, much bigger than one over gamma.
So if the surface of the of the of your conducting vacuum chamber is not smooth, even if it's rough, for example,
particles go through the, uh, cavities, then situation due to the boundary conditions is even more complicated.
And there is a significant imbalance between electric and magnetic forces.
Like here. We have sort of a balancing situation right here.
It's a totally imbalance. So and that what gives effect to what we called Wakefield's or induced fields or impedances.
Right. So let me start with bean bean bean beam acts on the particle like electromagnetic lens.
It doesn't, uh, represent in single form. So there are many multiples because, uh, beams are the fields generated by the beams.
Um, you kind of coming from the distribution of the beams and beams are usually not very simple distributions.
Usually it's like bell shape or Gaussian shape, sometimes the parabolic shape distributions.
But the point is that this, uh, these charges which go through each other, beam one and beam to uh, generate very non-linear, uh, fields, for example,
these fields could be, uh, very linear in the beginning when everything's kind of smooth and equal,
kind of flat distribution of the, of the, of the currents in charges.
But away from the beams, the forces are very non-linear.
Depending on the distribution, distribution can change as a result of interaction.
The forces become time dependent. For example. Yes, I got one beam goes through another beam.
They focus each other. Right. And what does this focusing do?
Question is uh, especially it's non-linear focusing. It's not like what drift presented.
You have a quadrupole and quadrupole or solenoid and solenoid when forces are linear here you have forces which do have linear components.
Uh 6 to 4 components. Uh, you know, oh garments of uh of, of the fields could,
could be proportional to the deviation deviation squared deviation cubed deviation fourth basically x y z in various combinations.
And that gives you uh gives rise in many intensity dependent effects because these forces are
proportional to the intensity or sometimes actually more than intensity intensity divided by beam size.
Right. The density of of the charge density of the current.
And this problem is the, uh, including unstable beam translations, oscillations in the accelerated growth of beam sizes and particle losses.
And all of them are terribly important for high intensity operation.
So. Bing bing fields. Yeah.
Can be calculated easily for simple geometries like take a cylinder of charge, uh, and calculate the forces very at very small deviations.
The, the force basically the kick experience when the particle one goes through the
cylinder of charge is proportional to how much charge is there divided by,
uh, what is the final formula?
So, uh, so field is outside of of the cylinder field is total charge inside the cylinder divided by x basically the radius.
So you see it's already nonlinear right.
The force is linear inside electric field is proportional to the density multiplied by deviation if you inside the cylinder but one over x outside.
So the force or kick in experienced by particle going through the opposite bunch it's the opposite.
For example Gaussian bunch is linear inside. So this is in this case this is defocus in force.
Right. Uh defocus means uh like proton proton collisions.
Right. And force one over x one over radius, uh, for, for large deviations of particles.
Right. So the strength of the beam force is usually characterized by the slope at the center right.
Because the details depend on how much charge is inside.
Right. For small shifts. Uh, uh, and this, this, this is additional focusing on the focus on element.
So that focus on the focusing is characterized by what we call tune shift.
Remember I told you that particle makes so many oscillations. The number of oscillations depends how many focus elements you put.
This is an extra element that appears in the ring due to the opposite bunch, proportional to the intensity of the opposite bunch.
Uh, and the tuned shape the shift of the better tone frequency. How many common oscillations particle makes over the ring is proportional?
It. Basically this is the beam beam parameter we call that it's. Yeah.
So this tuned shape due to the beam beam is proportional to these a focus.
You know the focusing number of particles. This is classical radius of the particles for example of muon or electron divided by four pi.
And this is the the the quantity introduced in lecture number one.
Normalized admittance for those who forgot and normalized the mutants is, say, gamma factor.
Multiply by sigma C are bunch size or image bunch size, uh multiplied by uh mass and distribution in the beam.
So so that quantity shows you basically it's a kind of phase space area goes into the denominator.
So this is dimensions of millimeters. So meters classical radius is meters.
This is number of particles. You see. Smaller the beam size smaller this product right.
So larger this shift higher the intensity larger the shift.
Right. So and that's what we call beam beam parameter.
There is a standard uh notion standard uh uh a symbol for it psi used everywhere in the literature.
So beam beam parameter is very important to be part of your homework.
Just pay attention. In this slide there is a definition of what this beam parameter is.
So this is a tuned shift right. And using this formula you can calculate what is the kick produced by tune shift.
You see because this one is this particular combination is nothing but beam tune shift multiplied by deviation of the particle.
And you can calculate what the what is the the shift. This is very measurable effect.
So take uh for example kind of GV beam 100 GV beam in LEP those remember LEP logic and Poisson Collider before LHC was in the LHC tunnel,
they had a very fancy uh arrangement because of the synchrotron radiation beams were flat, really flat.
So basically small vertical dimension and large horizontal dimension.
So when you move the beams with respect to each other, electrons and positrons, not much happens in the horizontal plane.
But as soon as you separate them a little bit, a little bit from each other at the interaction point,
and the beam comes at different, uh, different displacement from each other.
You see that depending on separation, what is the beam size?
Vertical beam size is only two microns. In that case, you separate beam by by two microns.
The beam beam deflection angle in micro radians reads -50, micro radiance -50.
My, is it the lot or is it a little. So uh.
That's what drift. Try to explain you that if you have a kick produced by an element, uh, and the kick is, for example, delta theta,
it results immediately in excitation of uh, of, uh, particle motion and particle starts to oscillate around this table orbit.
And if this is delta theta then the displacement delta x generated by such,
such a, such a kind of element is proportional to square root of beta function.
And the IP and beta function of the observation point multiply by uh, what is that, the, uh, sign of, uh, Metatron.
Metatron phase essentially between two points. So basically some sinusoidal function.
But this is proportional to delta theta and proportional to square root of with a function basically that displacement.
Is very much measurable. And again for this 50, my gradients I predicted would be uh, again, very short question.
What defines the sine of delta y. The positive versus minuses.
Positive or negative. Negative. One is up. Another down.
Oh okay. Yeah. So they were like okay now this is a flat beams.
Imagine it's a zero. There is nothing zero zero.
So if particles collide Head-On. There is no kick produced. Average kick left to zero.
This one. Oh, no.
No, that's how accurately. That's how accurately we measure orbit.
The vertical and horizontal. Yeah. Basically of course it's a reading from a BPM.
So BPM since that zero is here. Well when you do beam beams can you shows you that BPM has an offset in this particular case.
Yeah you're right. There is a about two microns error.
Systematic error and BPM. That's part of the story.
But not related to coherent defects is basically how good how good your BPM resolution is.
Right. And how well it it is basically what beam beam shows you exactly where the center of the part of the beam sees.
Yeah. Good catch. Uh, by the way, accuracy of, uh, accuracy of, uh, beam orbit of ocean, for example, in LHC, uh, is of the scale of, like, negative.
But even for large proton beams, it's like ten microns for International Linear Collider, uh,
studies, people demonstrate that they can measure beam position to to better than nanometer.
Again, if you do many, many measurements you can measure nanometer time, uh, that displacement.
Anyways. So because of the, because of the uh, because of this focus in effect deflections in this particular case,
it was focusing because electrons and positrons attract each other.
So the Metatron frequencies start to depend on where the bunch when the particle is, for example, particles, uh, going from uh,
particles giving very large translation amplitudes, particles with for example, you know, the already the beam consists of billions of particles.
Most of them, of course, are close to the center of the beam, but some of them go back and forth at large amplitude.
At larger amplitude particles, particles go through the focusing element and back and forth and back and forth.
Basically, the average gradient smears out, but the particles in the middle of the beam,
so they they experience extremely, you know, they see very big slope.
So basically the focus in effect is very strong in the center and very big, uh, away from the center.
So amplitude is usually measured kind of uh dependent on the beam beam sites in the, in the units of atoms beam size.
So for example, particles oscillating at six sigma actually will be like plus minus uh plus -12 microns.
In case of flip the the tune shift will be about five times smaller than for particles oscillating right in the middle.
Right. What that gives us, it gives us a them that particles are different and they experience different beam
dynamics and beam dynamics having these different of frequencies of oscillations.
I will explain you why it matters a lot. Right.
So if this difference is large, then there is a good opportunity that some particles may exist.
And that's a kind of a basic experience, really good beam dynamics.
Basically they can stay stable, operate for many, many thousands of years, while some other particles,
if they hit some non-linear resonance of a kind, the lifetime of these particles can be extremely small, right?
As I told it, sometimes it goes to like hundreds of turns of a lifetime.
Now, about, uh, why it is important to have, uh, to have, uh, to, to have a knowledge of the distribution of the different frequencies in the beam.
So if you take a single particle in the perfect lattice generated by a great guy like Jeff, so it gives you a predicted value of LHC tune.
In this particular case, it's one of the old values, point 28.50 1.2 or 28.
The fractional parts of the tune. An integer part is about 64, right.
So particle stays here, right? But uh, linear tune shift due to the beam beam resonances for core particles.
Uh, so in this case uh proton proton collider, it means they defocus each other.
And the better known frequency shift for due to the defocus in effect of the proton shifts.
Here again I've switched from positron electrons here this for proton proton.
So but particles but particles in the tail of the bunch they don't see much of an interaction.
Basically the tune of the particles in the halo is different from the tune, uh,
tuned with different frequencies of the particles in the very core of the beam. And all together these pictures are called footprints.
It shows all the particles, all the frequencies of all the particles in your bunch.
And again, this footprint again doesn't seem to be big deal.
Yeah. It changes from point 51 to point three. It's maybe like 0.0110 ten, ten thousands.
Is it a big deal if the spread is that large? Now look at the next, uh, the next.
Uh, okay. I swear, somewhere I have it. What footprint?
This is one of the most complicated beam beam dominated colliders ever built.
It's called Tevatron collider. So remember footprint?
I said that particles in the core and particles in the tail have different frequencies.
Uh, and lines here indicate dangerous resonances.
If one of the particles out of billions, you have hits, for example.
Uh, in this our seventh order resonance, this one, when the tune becomes equal to five, seven, one somewhere here.
Right. If the tune is equal to four divided by seven and particle particles here, a particle quickly gains the amplitude.
So it starts to get accelerated toward larger and larger transverse amplitudes over very, very few turns.
Right? So when particles hit another particle, for example, this particle would hit this red line,
which is a 20 tune, 20 .6.6 is nothing but three divided by five.
Three divided by five is a five order fifth order resonance.
If any particle gets there, it blows up. So this are one of the strongest resonances.
So as I told you, ten turns and instead of having amplitude of like hundred microns to get,
get the amplitude of 1000 microns, one millimeter, two millimeters, right.
And this is the interaction point is the kilometers will be immediately hitting the kilometers.
So if some particle stayed close to this resonance emissions is blown up.
If particles hit the other resonance is shown on this.
On this plot they get slowly lost, sometimes over seconds, sometimes over a minute, sometimes over ten turns, and so on and so forth.
So basically you live in the cell. It's a prisoner's dilemma.
So you want to be here or you want to be there.
But as soon as you increase intensity, the size of each of these tubes spread, grows and grows and grows.
Now the challenge for the people is how to fit the whole thing into basically cell of a good lifetime.
And that's extremely challenging. And that's why there are limits. So and this limits are called limits on this beam beam twin shift.
Remember on the one of the previous slides I gave you the formula. There is a limit on this beam beam tube shift.
And for uh for electron positron colliders the limit is approximately 0.01.1, you know,
like 0.117 .07 for, uh, proton proton colliders, electron positron colliders due to synchrotron radiation.
They have some damping mechanism. Yes. You disturb them a little bit. They usually synchrotron radiation brings them back to to normalcy.
So but still there is a limit. You can go much beyond this beam.
Beam parameter in the Tevatron was the world leader in getting the beam parameter in proton proton, proton into proton collisions or collisions.
Right? And the tune shift here is approximately whatever ten times less than in the in the electron positron colliders.
So and it's a challenge in this beam beam limits is that how much intensity you have and how small the beams you want.
And of course if you want high intensity and small beams being beam parameter growth.
Uh, and now the question is about lifetime. How far, how much you can afford.
Muon collider has advantage, right? Actually the best advantage of course is linear Collider right there.
You don't care about its resonances because you collide your particles.
Only one. You have electrons. You have positrons, collide them, compress them as much as you can.
And they they essentially blow up each other.
Each beam involves completely a completely complete means by a factor of like 10 to 100.
That's how strong the interactions are. It's a single interaction over point one millimeter results in complete destruction of the beam.
When did you translate transversely? Everything. And you just your your challenge is to collect the garbage after after interaction point.
So for proton proton colliders challenges that protons don't have synchrotron radiation and you should be extremely careful with them.
LHC you know the beam lifetime due to the beam beam interaction is maybe like 20 to 200 hours, basically hours.
People can kind of survive. If it's much lower than that, it's problematic.
You need to do something with your machine. You try to adjust parameters.
Right. Muon collider. So in between you have, as we calculated originally about 3000 years.
So don't need to wait for hours or minutes or even seconds if you have just 3000 turns.
Uh, and that gives you a little bit of freedom. Yes you can for large beam beam to shift.
For example, for muon collider, there will be one of the homework problems.
This parameter can be as big as 0.1.2, even bigger than in electron positron collider.
It's like LEP, right? Oh, so it could be factor.
So that can be pretty large parameter if you know how to generate if you know how
to generate enough muons because effect is proportional to the number of neurons.
And if you can call this muons and have very small size of this muons.
Right. Again, muon colliders are quite forgiving in that regard, but only if you can generate enough charge for electrons and protons.
There is no problem to generate enough charge. Right? Uh, but again, they will kill each other at the interaction.
Both electrons and positrons. Muon collider. So for electron positron machines have gone.
This is a hard limit for proton proton proton proton proton machine.
This is soft limit. But you feel it almost immediately because radiation levels start to grow up.
Your your kilometers are not capable to intercept that much of a power of the particles which are scattered to the beam being effect.
Okay. This is the the most awful situation in the proton beam server.
Chief. The problem in the Tevatron. So this resonances again, as I said, this is a beam.
Beam resonances are represented by straight lines on the diagram of tuned horizontal and vertical tuned.
This is to tune the map of LHC. Right. And it shows that everything is in.
Again if you don't properly, uh, to kind of fit your beam into this cell of resonances in the structure of resonance,
you your it's invitation for trouble, you can get very high intensities.
Right. Other nonlinear resonances. Right.
So again, sorry, uh, the simplest reason, the simplest resonances, uh, linear resonances and then nonlinear resonance.
Means the accurate different frequencies, not the frequency of a better translation,
but say twice the frequency of a translation or combination of frequency for better translation.
General condition for resonance is one horizontal you multiplied by integer plus uh, vertical two multiplied by integer is another integer.
So that is just definition of of resonance.
Right. So the the working point usually looks like a collection of these lines.
Each of them is linear q y versus q is the line linear.
Uh right. So the question is whether you can fit your, uh, your spread of the frequencies inside one of these, you know, one of these little cells.
How to control beam being fact. There are two are two opportunities.
Right. So, uh, opportunity number one, don't do your beam very dance.
Right. But usually it affects luminosity. Right? Beam. So low intensity, your large doesn't work.
There are interesting opportunities for compensation of beam effects to correct them.
So you need to, uh, for example, create the electron lenses which would match the distribute.
Electrons are negatively charged and protons colliding with protons for example.
Uh, positive and positive. So positive charges of course defocus each other.
But what if right of the interaction at the main AP, for example, CMS,
you put an electron lens which has exactly the same Gaussian distribution as the opposite proton bunch, but has different charge negative charge.
So instead of going through the focus in many, many times you go through the focusing type and focusing by electron lens.
And this you need just charge of electrons. So it's called the electron lens.
It allows to shift the tum's or compensate non-linear fields of opposite uh of uh opposite bunch.
So uh, that was that was one of the ideas.
Right. So how to generate these electrons. Right. Uh, the first idea was tried, uh, many, many years ago, five decades ago in France.
They said, oh, yeah, we have colliding beams, electrons and positrons. So how to compensate electrons and positrons?
Why don't we bring two beams simultaneously from one side and two beams simultaneously from another side?
So you have e minus e plus e plus and minus and you collide them all four beams in the same spot.
Right. Great idea. Because in this case you have charge plus just minus charge plus minus no charge.
And the interaction point there is no electric field. And then and for currents L so cancel each other.
Right. So you have no currents no charge, no force is left in the interaction point.
Right. And the people try to collide this beams and go to I would say I wouldn't say failure.
So the idea was they so that oh we can increase beam beam parameter strengths of beam interaction by factor of ten compared to uncompensated,
uh, situation. And they got only 20% increase because these particles are two free.
So the particles oscillate, as I told the original particles, very loosely, loosely focused and transversely, they are not very stable.
And and they started to see that beam start to experience, uh, either coherent or coherent or very complicated,
uh, effects, collective effects and the beam distribution changes.
And basically the beam started to blow up each other or they started oscillate with respect to each other,
which is the condition of good compensation disappeared.
So that was a, uh, I would say not very effective, uh, not very effective compensation of the effect.
That's why, uh, in, uh, late 90s, I came up with the idea of a compensating effect by electron lenses,
actually, lenses built out of very strong electrons.
And if this electrons are magnetized, uh, and they can be created with a distribution exactly opposite of a proton.
Bunch of proton bunches, for example, has a Gaussian distribution and the electron beam in your electron lens,
this is actually object about two meters long, uh, with a proper,
uh, properly generated low energy electron beam,
but which is very stiff because electron beam in such electron lands, first of all, it doesn't exist for very long.
And second, it's very rigid transversely if it's immersed in the magnetic field, right,
kind of the beam goes through, it doesn't see magnetic field much, but, uh, electrons are very rigid.
So that will be that will give you complete. Complete. Creation of nonlinear effects.
Uh, in, in this particular case in the Tevatron collider.
So instead the footprint of a footprint being as large as this, you can say that the footprint essentially to zero if you perfectly do everything.
So this electron lenses were built and installed in the Tevatron. And this is the objects again 3 to 4m long object later on.
Again, two of them show that they work pretty well in a compensated long range.
Maybe, in fact by a factor of two in the Tevatron later on, uh, they were used.
And this is electric field of the, of the, of these objects, which generates an object consisting of its pure electrons, nothing else.
Very small, uh, like one, 1 or 2 millimeter diameter beam, uh, with amperes of current.
Uh, that's how it looks in the Tevatron, so helped a lot.
So we figured out how it can be used for collimation and how it can be used for compensation and effects, uh, of various kinds.
I skip that part because too much detail later on.
Two lenses. Uh, so, uh, ten years later, we are installed in the collider in, uh, Brookhaven.
And they also show the great effect on compensation of non-linear, uh, beam being effects in that collider.
And they increased. They increased, uh, uh, they allowed maximum beam intensity to be increased by 40% that the compensated one out of two eyepiece.
Right. So basically luminosity went up from, from this number to that number just by using these two simple electron lenses for two beams.
What do you mean they have proton proton collisions.
You need one beam for one, one electron lens for one beam one another electron lens for another beam.
Right. So and there are other approaches which deal with various components of interaction.
If, for example, beams sometimes are separated by, uh, large distance, but they still see each other and that also can be can be compensated.
Right. Uh, building topics also include the physics and the linear colliders.
I told the linear colliders, they break each other. Beams break each other immediately because the beams are so dense and so intense.
Beam strong because symmetric beams contribute a strong pin drop k, which is monochromatic H in many, many, many, many effects.
So people we do have sophisticated codes which predict dynamics.
But again it's beyond beyond what we can discuss here.
So I switch to another important, uh, set of effects called space charge effects.
Remember I told you that if you have two similar charged, uh, particles like protons and protons, they, uh, they repel each other.
And the the net effect is one over gamma compared to an initial electric repulsion because of the, uh, because of the,
uh, magnetic field, uh, compensation, sort of the focusing of this space charge effect is also non-linear.
It also depends on what is the distribution of the charge. If transverse distribution is Gaussian.
Yes. In the middle you have a linear forces, but away from the center you start to see forces which behave something, something like that.
So supercharge your picture proportional to the current. Of course, they are inversely proportional to the beam size.
You see one over sigma squared and again gamma factor gamma squared.
Remember always is there. Right. And problem is space charge that the forces are strong strong that say uh the space charge beam
beam space charge limit for proton proton machines is in uh being achieved not far from here.
So the machine h difference it's called booster. And there we used to get the space shuttle during shifts which will be some were
defined here which had students of similar formula very similar to being beam effects,
but just takes into account this gamma gamma factor squared into the in the denominator.
Right. So that parameter space shuttle students, if there was a shift to be .6.6.7, it is enormously large.
Basically the whole footprint area is filled.
And of course, as you see, the resonances, uh, everywhere in question is for how long you can survive in this situation.
So and in the booster because booster is repeat cycle in machine.
That's exactly what's required for muon colliders. We need repeat cycle machine booster is cycled at 15Hz.
Right. Basically you have uh what the 30,000,000 milliseconds still to accelerate.
So we very quickly go from low energy where special effects are very strong to high energy.
And even we spend that this space stretched into parameter of 0.6, we spend only it's like 150, 200 turns.
And that is enough to blow up the beam by factor of two. So basically, if you know the way to accelerate faster,
you quickly go through this situation when gamma is low and you go to legend, larger gamma factors when if you have to compensate.
But again, this space stretch parameter is basically sets another limit.
How much intensity you can put in low intensity beams. Why this low intensity beams are important?
Because at the end you think about neuron collider neurons start from protons.
You need to generate these protons and you tons of them. Tons means it's a record high intensity in proton Synchrotron.
And this program two components. Exactly. These limitations will will affect how how how much of the beam you can afford.
What if you put more intensity. No problem. But.
Transmitted. Basically, the effectiveness of your motion will be will be limited.
So there is a kind of rule of some limit that losses which you can afford in your machine in order to be able to touch it,
should not exceed 1W/m of circumference.
In case of of of the booster, that is a 500 meter circumference, you can afford 500 times one what per meter, so not more than 500W.
And how to live within 500W. Either you reduce repetition rate or you reduce intensity or reduce space charge effects.
Do something about space charge effect is the only way to generate, uh, to generate, uh, high intensity short bunches.
Right? Uh, I skip the effects again somewhere here.
This is booster, you know, speech charge parameter 0.6.
You see, for the machines, this parameter which you get you at the limit of maximum intensities,
people achieve zero point, 4.5.3.3.6 at Fermilab, .2.4.1.2.3.
Again it tells you that, yeah, this is this is reality. You live within certain certain realm of problems and you start to work around them.
There are a number of ideas proposed, how it can be worked out or how to make.
Sometimes people think, oh, we can make speech force is linear rather than non-linear.
Yeah, it might help.
Sometimes people say, yeah, but uh, the effect is local basically depends on the current density in this particular location of the bunch.
What if we if you make the bunch distribution not not like Gaussian bell shaped by the flat distribution,
then the space charge forces will be uniform, uh, along your bunch and that curve and so on, so forth.
And of course, one of the ideas which we, uh,
trying to explore the accelerator quarter not far from here at Fermilab is to use electron lenses again, because the proton space charges positively.
Charge effects. Right. So electrons give negatively charge effect.
And they figured out that if you put the electron electrons on the orbit like six electron lenses in the orbit of a machine,
like a booster, uh, you can get significant improvement. This would be as tune spread.
Now, you see, from 2.8 to 4.0, it's enormously large footprint area and beam, uh,
which we put in simulations here, has extremely large intensity and very quickly gets dispersed.
Right. If you put the electron lenses, footprint becomes very small.
It allows to live within kind of certain footprint area.
Lifetime is improved and compensation gives a factor of 2 to 3 improvement in the intensity you can get out of this machine.
The point is that accept the fees is a very inventive.
So we're trying to to use various factors in order to to counteract this very fundamental effects,
which are due to electric forces, electric forces due to charges. So we do this experiment.
We plan to do this experiment in the this is the room itself not far from here for those who are interested.
Yeah. This is one of opportunities, uh, to do R&D, including R&D for muon collider.
And then one of our teachers today is doing his big work.
Exactly. In one of these experiments where we try to play with very high intensity, high intensity proton bunches instabilities.
Last topic here, right? I don't know how much time I left. Sorry.
Yeah. Have plenty of time. Plenty of time. Good instabilities.
So instabilities are driven by electromagnetic interaction with accelerated environment.
We also call them Wakefield's impedances.
And by electron cloud basically electric fields due to the intensive beams can be generated by image currents of various kinds in the vacuum chambers,
in the cavities, or by unstable charged particles on the orbit.
So, for example, electron cloud is a famous representation for those who work uh, at CERN at the, you know, every.
So if you see that LHC need to go through scrubbing,
scrubbing means they do something to vacuum chamber in order to reduce number of secondary electrons, which can can be extracted out of these walls.
Because if too many electrons come, protons positively charge.
You can imagine that if electrons are generated on the walls negatively charged electrons,
they are low, low energy like reaction hundred volts five control.
They get attracted to the proton beam. They they have a tendency to to concentrate around proton beams in the vacuum chamber.
Chamber is about the big beams are like order of millimeter millimeter size.
So you have a millimeter of a cloud of electrons. And this cloud is not very stable.
Right. Because the low energy electrons. So they stay there, they go back and forth,
and there is opportunity for unstable modes of oscillation of this cloud of electrons with respect to the, to the proton circulation.
And that results in beam losses again. Right. So uh, electron clouds and Wakefield impedances.
So there are above certain intensity thresholds. The beam oscillation amplitude increases exponentially and the beam is either lost
the wall its uncertain stability or get out of what drift explained error bucket.
When the energy oscillations of the beam get gets, the large particles cannot be captured by RF.
RF system and particle start to go around the machine and they get totally weird energies.
They get lost somewhere. Presently heat loads instability.
So one of the main limits and quality limitations, intensity limitations and particle accelerators for high intensity.
Brightness. Fighting cures for instability is one of the major challenges for us and for future machines.
So tomorrow you'll hear more about, uh, about, you know, challenges of low energy machines.
Uh, like proton machines, the the effect with impedances are extremely important.
They're right. And for high energy beams, beam instabilities is a current effect.
Uh, for example.
But are there other effects like synchrotron radiation for the electrons or for electron clouds can affect instability thresholds of various kinds.
So what's happening there? So beam goes through the beam pipe.
If you have electron cloud or electric fields generated by image current they produce they produce they produce electric fields inside.
And this field electric fields affect particles in the same bunch.
So you have a bunch, for example in the LHC bunches. Uh, that long.
And there are 3000 bunch of of them, right? All over a circumference.
So each bunch has that much charge inside. Right.
And the particles in the head of the bunch, they have electric field magnetic fields.
And this electric and magnetic fields, you have image currents, electric and magnetic, uh,
currents and charges and fields of these charges are so strong that the the fields of this image charges, uh, can affect particles following the head.
Basically, the head of the bunch affects everything behind particles in the core of the bunch affect everything behind the center of the bunch.
And the only particles in the very tail of the bunch don't do anything.
Basically, they're the subject of all these electromagnetic forces from image currents.
What makes things complicated that as we try to explain, original particles, perform synchrotron oscillations.
So those particles which are the tail of the bunch for millisecond, like, uh,
50 millisecond later or 20 millisecond later, become particles in the head of the bunch.
Now they excite oscillations and others suffering, and they go back and forth.
Basically, everything affects everything.
So and the effects are both transverse and Linde, did you know if you have an excellent mixture of instabilities,
if you want to kind of learn about complexities of instabilities, what can occur, what cannot, you know, just open any textbook on plasma.
Plasma is full of exactly that stuff. But differences that of course their intensities are very high, but the energies are very low.
Right? Plasma is and again, it's, you know, just a million, million degrees.
Right. We have we are talking about 30 electron volts.
So if you're uh, uh, 6.6.8 tera particle like a or muon, for example, gets lost,
it's significantly more of a problem than, than for one 1 million degree Kelvin.
Um, uh, problem in the, in the, you know, in the plasma device.
Anyways, so Wakefield's uh, named by the because of wake.
So something that is left behind is, like I said, particle one leaves electromagnetic fields which affect particle two behind it.
So and these fields do have longitudinal components. Do have transverse components.
Uh, so, uh, do I have a nice. Oh there is no nice animation.
Anyways, what's shown here. Just to take a plain round pipe and put high intensity bunch into the pipe.
The pipe wall is here. See the white white corner right?
The electric fields and magnetic fields are shown here in the core of the bunch.
They're strong, the big radius they're weaker, and so on, so forth.
And you send that bunch through, the bunch goes through. It goes, goes until there is a discontinuity in the due to some necessary probably reason.
So the radius of the pipe becomes larger. What happens after that?
The particles come out through this. Just continue into some part of the field is here.
Another part of the field propagates all the way to new boundary condition.
So the bunch leaves, goes goes this way.
But there is a lot of energy left behind because the electromagnetic, uh, fields left behind.
And basically you see very complicated structure of what what what is there right here.
It's another discontinuity. It's like a RF cavity. So some some electromagnetic fields are left there.
And this wakes in the cavity. Uh, Wakefield's we call them.
So they are first of all, if intensity is large they're strong.
And second they can affect if the particles come in after that bunch or even particles inside the bunch itself.
So, uh, I again, this is show the structure of this Wakefield's in the various conditions, uh,
usually this longitudinal Wakefield's uh, uh, very strong, uh, at very short distances and transverse Wakefield, uh, also very strong,
can again disclose that the boundary conditions, the boundaries of the particles to, to the, to the beam,
the stronger the fields are because the fields, fields of a just a single color current charge is one over, uh, one over uh, radius.
Right. So and the Wakefield zile. So basically smaller the radius of the vacuum pipe, the stronger the fields the particles leaves behind.
Right. And as I said,
the problem is that if particles start to talk to each other through this interaction with the vacuum pipes or cavities or whatever, then.
Head of the bunch affects the tail. Tail becomes head of the bunch later on, and they affect each other.
And there's a complicated in a system, even in the linear situation, which is never linear.
So when all the force is proportional to the displacement of x1 and x2, you in that case.
So we see that there is a very strong linear growth proportional to the effect intensity of the beam.
And this Wakefield parameters. So and the modes become unstable.
We see this effects in the circle of machines. We see that effects in linear accelerators.
In the linear accelerators. For example bunch number one generates the Wakefield and later on it propagates.
And you start to see like banana effect. So the bunch which is supposed to go through its own oscillations in other.
Yeah, it's a little bit mismatched.
It doesn't go through the center is a little bit deviated, but deviation of the tail of the bunch in the linear growth along the Linux.
So it gets like banana shape, uh, distortions of tail becomes here.
And if you bring this banana shape in the final focus of a linear collider, you collide banana with banana, you get nothing but oranges, you know.
Well, well, you need Higgs particles, right? Because effective beam size becomes extremely large, right?
You don't want that. All right. So we see that in the Linux.
We see that many many times we call the mode coupling instabilities various modes interacting
and transverse and latitudinal plane for high intensity proton and electron machines in the,
in the synchrotron in the rings and so on, so forth. So uh, intensity limits and cures.
So basically all these effects are proportional to the how much charge or current you send through through your system.
Right. So, uh, one of important effects is beam pipe heating.
So, uh, in many machines, especially high intensity high energy machines, remember this relation between energy and magnetic field.
If your radius, like LHC radius, is fixed at four point to four kilometers, right, then,
uh, then you need very strong magnetic field in order to get very high, high energies.
Right. And strong magnetic field requires superconducting.
So superconducting magnets, superconducting magnets require, uh, coolants like helium.
Right. And they usually operated at two Kelvin. So essentially right next to your beam you have an object 50m long with a 50mm aperture.
And that aperture is cold. And now imagine that either, uh, electromagnetic field generated by the beam or electromagnetic problems,
uh, basically, heating generated by electron cloud heats your two Kelvin aperture.
Remember I told you that for normal conducting machines like, like Jeff's booster, the limit is 1W/m.
That's allowed because of radioactivity activity condition. So, uh, for superconducting magnets problem, it's approximately the same scale.
If you have one watt of power due to the heating of the vacuum pipe due to the image currents,
for example, or heating due to the due to the electron cloud,
because electron cloud and its cloud of electrons,
they go in the directions and they basically they borrow energy from the high high energy proton beam.
If that power goes into your cryogenic system, cryogenic system doesn't work.
And again, the problem is of the scale of again like one what fraction of a what per meter.
So not not more. Uh, and this is very sensitive.
You don't want to allow, uh, your heating to be, to be, to be affecting your cryogenic system because in order to absorb one watt at two Kelvin,
you need to to produce one kilowatt of energy of the cryo compressors,
which allow us to to suck, suck the temperature that suck the heat from low temperatures.
Right. So this is the limits. Significant limits.
Bunching tends to bunch guarantee the cures which we kind of employed so far include reduction of Wakefield's impedances.
For example, I show that the pictures where these Wakefield come from from discontinuities right beam pipe then kind of cavity then kind of change,
change the radius a little bit. So we now try to make beam pipes as smooth as possible when it comes to the when by necessity you need to increase
the aperture for example to put your to put your RFK which is RFK discovery usually let me just like that right.
You make like very smooth transition. So we try to not to uh, not to kind of take too much of the which of the Wakefield's out of your bunch.
So we make a better conducting materials to remove discontinuities.
In Linux we use a special technique called DNS damping.
We introduce. But basically to avoid these banana shape effects.
And we're showing that it works pretty well in range. We have suppression of instability just by a very simple, uh, idea that yeah,
if you see that something bad is going to happen, for example, uh, the bunch number one is exciting.
Bunch is behind it, right. Uh, you can see the kind of the beginning of the problem, beginning of instability.
You measure that something bad happens in bunch number two, you take, uh, you measure this very teeny tiny.
The scale of like nanometers to a fraction of a micron. The initial oscillations.
You measure them, you find the phase, and you know that it comes from the bunch.
Number one, in your apply feedback system. Basically, you have a characters very fast characters which can suppress motion of the head.
So it always kind of suppresses the excitation of bunch.
Number two. Basically you affect preceding bunches one next turn right in order to have bunches behind it, kind of behind it.
Stimuli feedback feedback systems,
feedback dampers we call them or we introduce a better different frequencies the spread due to chromaticity, which is very important.
Basically, uh, of course this instability occurs when everything oscillates at the same frequency.
It's like kind of driving the, the, uh, coherent oscillations driving at the resonant frequency.
So every time you add add the, the amplitude, the kick always in phase, of course, the amplitude grows right into resonant condition.
But what if particle number one and particle number two have slightly different frequencies of oscillations.
You have two pendulum right. So initially they move together and they can excite effectively.
But after some time if there is a spread of frequencies they get out of phase and you basically stabilize the motion,
because now motion is out of residence and out of resonant means, the instability doesn't grow exponentially anymore.
So and that can be done by using very simple fact that the, uh,
focusing properties of essentially any, any element in our accelerators, uh, dependent on the energy,
if even if the energy is different by, you know, point to 1%, it still can result in significant,
uh, change of the different frequencies through the so-called chromaticity.
Chromaticity Q prime multiplied by energy spread gives you, uh, spread of the different frequencies.
And that helps. So what we use special magnets called octopus.
There are some ways to, to deal with all that. But uh, again, uh, sometimes it's sometimes a challenge.
For example, why why not many? Actually the people like it.
First of all, it's a huge machine, very expensive, many magnets.
But from point of view of beam dynamics, uh,
problem is that the beams are so intense and so small that it's very hard to to stabilize them transversely using so-called octopod magnets.
So octopus magnets are magnets which generate spread of frequencies inside the bunch transversely, which is extremely small.
It's very hard to generate. For example, in, uh, you need I forgot how many like, uh, almost a kilometer of a so-called octopus magnets.
Uh, in the LHC, there are 168 octopod magnets.
Of course, we all know about dipoles in the LHC, right?
But besides them, there are many other, uh, magnets which are used for stabilization of the B, so 160 of them are so-called octopus.
And these are pretty sizable magnets. Right.
And they work for LHC, whether in deep size is, uh, like, uh, 200 microns in the beam size is significantly smaller.
So these magnets, when you, you know, kilometers and kilometers of them.
And again, one of the ideas is to use electron lens to generate the tune, spread in the beams.
And that will allow to stabilize beam and that you need for that you need only
like two meter long electron lens for each beam in LHC or beam in the uh,
so for muon collider probably don't need that because because again to our advantage to the lifetime of a muon is short right.
So yes all these effects will be their intensities are very high, right, in the muon colliders.
But you care about this effects only for, you know, 1200.
Right. So and that that is significant kind of leeway for us.
Uh, anyways, in all the machines we talk about when intensity sky instability, secure or particles kind of scatter each other or whatever.
So you need to intercept, as Jeff said, you need to intercept this color particles.
You don't want them to to go around in case of of course muon collider.
The biggest change is that muons decay. But in case of proton, proton, proton electron or electron electron machines,
you care about particles which you know exist where they don't supposed to exist, like a 20 sigma or ten sigma away from the core.
White particles are there. There are some particular theories, but but they are there.
So usually what we do, we really make the beam. We don't allow particles with amplitude more than, say, five sigma to circulate in your machine.
It means, for example, in super KB. Right.
So we, we put that much of a very flat, uh, kilometer surface with two jaws.
So the beam is right exactly between them. So in jaws are very close to the beam.
Right. So same in the LHC. In the LHC we have two kilometers with two draws, which automatically now it works like, you know, uh, like a beauty.
So at the beginning of each, uh, store of the machine.
So beam the injected kilometers automatically go find where the beam is and stay exactly at, like five sigma.
Uh, from from the core of the beam. And we from the very beginning, we very carefully track, you know,
essentially each particle which wants to leave the machine, we want them to leave at the dedicated.
Because God forbid they end up in the superconducting dipole.
Remember this 1W/m? If you have one, what you can get.
Easy to get out of hundreds of megajoules of energy circulating in the LHC can easily get one weight in one spot.
If you don't control it well and then superconducting magnets become become non superconducting.
It's a quench right. So we put a lot of collimation.
So uh and kilometers are very important.
Uh if you don't control things. Well this is one of the accident photos in the Tevatron.
Tevatron is what's the energy of the beam on live one TV compared to seven in LHC?
Even that beam made, uh, what, approximately one meter long groove, uh, of about three millimeters in the bulk of,
uh, uh, stainless steel, uh, kilometer, which was placed next, next to the beam.
So basically, the beam ruined a lot of stuff at the time.
So there was a massive quench and we didn't control it will later on.
Now, Jeff showed this slide that in OHC there is a, you know, 3 or 4 stage collimation system in order to protect magnets,
protect protect the interaction region, uh, from, from the garbage which may come from the beam due to various reasons and so on, so forth.
I skip that. There are many challenges, many challenges, many challenges.
Super cube challenges, challenges.
So what's important that if you have any mechanism to return your particles to the core, that works to great advantage.
Remember the formula for luminosity. Luminosity is proportional to how often you collide the beams intensity squared divided by beam size.
If you know how to reduce that, think you can get for the same intensities.
For example, if n1 and n2 are fixed and you decrease the cross-section of your beam by a factor of ten, you get factor of ten in luminosity.
Right. Isn't that great? Question is how to make it. So the idea is so-called, uh, cooling.
So if your original beam idea the the the collision energy,
if your original beam is large and you want to make it small, can you introduce a mechanism which would make it smaller?
For example, this is phase space x prime x y prime y, and so on, so forth.
If originally we inject that much of a beam, can we get a smaller beam?
That would be great. Yes.
Uh, and for electric machines, actually there is a natural mechanism that allows and at least to some extent to cool the beam.
For example, in LEP, that's what we discussed in LEP.
Uh, there's 27km machine with electrons and positrons.
You can actually inject a, roughly speaking, like five millimeter wide beam,
five millimeter from here to there in the horizontal or vertical plane in the machine, and approximately 2 or 300 turns later, right.
Due to the synchrotron radiation, uh, you have a cooling effect.
The beam size shrinks. Of course, there is a limit due to the quantum fluctuations of synchrotron radiation,
but beam size can shrink from, like, plus -three millimeters to plus minus and or vertically.
What? It was three microns, right? Very quickly the beam cools down to just microns.
How come? The reason is cooling? Cooling is a key effect.
Uh, cooling is how to say that when you have dissipation in the system, for example, uh, and you have a force if you have a force in your system.
Right. Like a viscosity in the, in the, in water.
Right. So the force is proportional to first, first coefficient, viscosity coefficient and velocity.
Right. If there is a force which is proportional and negative proportional to velocity.
So any deviation for example your particle wants to scatter and gets kind of transverse velocity in this direction.
Right. So for example delta transverse velocity here if you have a cooling the force reduces reduces the momentum.
It goes back. So goes back here of course the momentum becomes smaller.
But if you replenish only longitudinal component so eventually you get smaller deviation.
Next time you again reduce it you get even smaller deviation.
So on so forth. Basically each particle not not billions of particles together, but each of them,
each of the billion particles should see the force which works against the velocity of that particle at that moment,
not three times hundred turns ago, but right now, if you have this instantaneous mechanism,
that right there on the spot returns your velocity back against the momentum.
And later, of course, longitudinal momentum will be lost as well, but we can easily replenish it.
Then it gives you the effect that the particles which are originally come in two directions, become smaller and smaller and smaller and smaller.
Eventually they get smaller and smaller. And that's where we get small beams.
So in the electron machines, as I said, there is a natural mechanism called synchrotron radiation that's exactly like that.
So that's probably the video you see inject enormous beam and eventually becomes small being right again.
Not very well represented, not a factor of a thousand, but like a factor of ten instead of in cross-section, but still very important.
So how to do that coding. So there are four methods of cooling which we tested.
And they worked at different conditions. The synchrotron radiation then been in the storage rings and electron positron rings was known since 1960s.
Doesn't work for muons, doesn't work for protons. Protons don't radiate.
Muons don't radiate. Translation. Electron cooling was widely used to cool ions and antiprotons,
but usually works up to the energies so often like one maximum maximum five GB per nucleon.
Again, for us it's low energy, right? We can't use them in the colliders.
Stochastic cooling was used in the colliders with widely used to put lines in antiprotons, the first time tested at CERN in the 80s and 90s, right?
The later Fermilab tuk tuk took the leadership. So we provided the world's most efficient antiproton source, which did exactly that.
But the effect is inversely proportional to the number of particles.
If you have just two particles in the machine, stochastic equivalent works like a beauty.
You measure where each particle is in. You corrected the use of electronic feedback systems.
Basically, you put the particles in tension on the orbit of the machines.
If you have ten to the 14 particles, you can distinguish them, and you need to distinguish individual particles in order to correct them.
So basically for high intensity machine doesn't work. Laser cooling was invented in 1990 to work for some some highly charged ions.
It's a complicated machine, but only used for again due to various reasons, only for low energy special type of ions machines.
Yes, it gives good cooling, good spectroscopic machines, but not colliders.
So, uh, in the past I would say five, ten years.
So we had some breakthroughs in the different types of cooling.
So recent successes include the initiation cooling demonstration, a trial, and then an experiment called mice.
People, uh, kind of developed a bunch of beam electron cooling in Brookhaven.
They want to use similar technique, electron cooling technique, uh, in the electron collider later on.
Right. So optical stochastic cooling has been demonstrated at Fermilab by Iota machine in 2021.
People still kind of think they can get success in so-called coherent electron cooling.
Basically, I'm just showing that there are a number of ideas people always want to find the way how to cool the beams, how to make them smaller.
Right? That I thank you for your attention and open for questions.
Okay. Yeah. Questions? I might add just a quick clarification question.
I think you had mentioned, uh, that, uh, when it comes to instabilities, the, uh,
Mayan Collider is a little bit fairing, a little bit better than, uh, protons, where the limits are not as strict.
And I was wondering why that was the case after muon.
Um, and basically, um, how it see if your instability is very weak.
Yeah. Uh, then.
You get basically increase of your beam size or particle coordinate particle size silhouette, right.
So the amplitude grows slowly. Right? Due to, you know, either impedances or some scattering or whatever.
Right. And and they usually have a picture not far either kilometers or real aperture or something.
Well then it usually basically gets out of acceleration condition.
Right. So if your effect is small but you have tons of time, a lot of time, for example, in case of uh, in case of LHC.
Right.
So instability due to say electron fault or due to the beam beam interaction is so weak that eventually particles, yes, they will hit the aperture.
That might take ten hours, right?
If you have ten hours of your operation time, yeah, you will see it because essentially like 50% of your particles will eventually reach the aperture.
And that's that's bad, right? So, uh, an effect is weak, but you have a lot of time.
If effect is strong, you can very quickly get to, uh, very quickly get to to the, to the aperture.
Right. Basically, you get lost. Uh, but the strong effects are not basically all effects are proportion to intensity.
Right. So you need extremely high intensities in order to get very strong effect.
And the effects which affect dynamics at the scale of, you know, hundreds of thousand turns,
uh, it really kind of it's a very robust, very strong, very strong effect.
Usually, you know, you just drop intensity a little bit and you you stay away from that.
Again, basically it's a balance. You know, how much of the problem kind of you expect and how it scales with intensity.
Right. And how much of a lifetime of your system needs to be taken into account in order to start to worry or not to start to work again.
Out of this, the strongest effect once again, to give you a timeline of effect, uh, really strong linear resonances, for example, integer or higher.
For integer resonance, we are talking about 5 to 10 terms.
So basically if you have tune of your muon collider is not correctly set.
For example, it said that 3/5 fifth order resonance tuning is equal to 0.6.
You know, 65.6, right? In ten turns.
Half of your being will be on kilometers kilometers. You'll be completely blown up.
So you turn off your machine and get rid of this garbage for for the next three weeks and do nothing but the.
So that's how strong effect this speech charge effect. Like in a in a proton complex of a fermion collider.
Spin charge effect. Again the switch and shift parameters we're talking about again proportional to intensity can be as big as 0.5 or 1 at point five.
We've already seen in the booster, uh, in the Fermi levels booster that essentially you have only 100 turns, maybe 200 turns to play with it.
So basically, either get rid of the beam or get rid of the effect, you know, for example,
accelerate quickly, do something about well, for example, when you try to compress proton bunches, right.
Don't keep that proton because proton bunch it means a lot of charge density.
Linear density space charge forces grows one over beam size.
Right. So don't keep beam in that condition. As soon as you compress the beam to short enough bunch, let's get rid of it.
Send it to the target or whatever. Right. So hand it turns right.
So then beam boom effect could be again with very strong beam beam parameters.
It could be in the worst case scenario could be thousands of joints or ten thousands of turns.
Right. We know how to live with it again for muon collider for example, do you care about endurance?
You probably do. Do you care about 10,200 defect? Probably don't because lifetime is so so weak.
That's why the situation is forgiving right. So instabilities can also have depending on you know how bad they are can have a race time of,
you know hundred students to thousands or tens maybe 10,000 students need to to work to work with them, basically stabilize them one way or another.
Right. And then there are subtle effects, uh, due to the noise is due to the vacuum, due to the, you know, there are many, many subtle effects.
Only if your beam lifetime is enormously long minutes, hours or whatever.
Sometimes this, the longest story in the Tevatron,
was about 56 hours because you didn't have extraction kicker ready to to fire and just waiting until engineers fix.
Fix the giga. Yeah, beam stays there 40, 56 hours, two days, two days, and they have to signal waiting, you know, doing nothing.
There is no luminosity, but beam circulates variable.
Yeah. So in that case, yeah, you start to worry about what if vacuum was bad?
Yeah, yeah. Two days later, maybe the beam will become, you know, three meters wider.
Uh, whatever. But again, all depends on the, the machines. And in that regard, dynamics of the muon collider itself as the machine is forgiving,
but at the same time, the bunches are very short, very and very intense.
And even like, you know, there are many problems in the Linear Collider. So muon Collider is somewhere in between in Linear Collider, in the Linux,
the bed effects instability effects happen over single pass through kilometers a few.
This section, Linear Collider or Segment Collider will have some effects of comparable size.
Basically, many, many instabilities can happen very quickly while you accelerating the muons.
And that's how intense muon bunches are. That's what we plan to do.
And for you. Sorry, I forgot.
I show up at the end of your consultation.
You described a lot of these, uh, ideas for, uh, cooling.
And a lot of the times when we think of muon cooling, we think ionization cooling.
Can you explain or immediately dismiss why we can't use any of these other strategies for muon cooling specifically?
Or are there opportunities okay to do this right? Yeah.
Again, as I told you, short lifetime of muons is advantage sometimes.
But when you want to reduce the beam size, you need to provide these forces.
Very force should be very, very strong.
Basically it means the force should should reduce the momentum of your particle very quickly over very short distance.
Right. That's that's what we call troll force.
Because if you if you use for example, if you lose and every process of cooling stage like 10 to -7 of your momentum,
you need ten to the seven turns in order for, for for for this cooling to happen.
So if you need to do it quickly you need to lose, you know, big fraction of momentum replenish the energy and very quickly continue.
Computer.
For example in this method, in this method the that the beam only this the system is about what four minutes long most level that is diagnostics.
Right now the part where cooling occurs is the absorber which is that that big not more and RF cavity which would never work by the way.
Well this experiment. So basically everything happens over, you know, scale of a half a meter to a meter, right?
And you lose 10% of the energy. That's why this method works for muons pretty well.
In this particular method, the lifetime they are changed for a bunch of milk,
including the lifetime that you obtained was of the order of ten minutes.
For muons, there is no lifetime of the of the, you know, 2 million and microsecond.
Basically ten minutes is way too long. But for protons in the main relativistic colliders.
Yeah, they have, you know, hours of lifetime. They like it. So optical stochastic cooling.
So for when we try to figure out oh it's a great method.
Right. So um, can can it be applied to muons.
So for, for example for 1010 to of GV muons the or one TV muons, the effect of the stochastic cooling.
It depends on how how much of the laser power you have in order to to interact with the charged particles.
So the effect of non, uh, muons resulted in a kind of cooling time, not better than one to 10s, uh, the proper lifetime.
Yes, it's a proper life time, right? So basically, it's so much even even with the overstretched parameters of a of the lasers required for,
for this technique and amplification of the light. Right.
So yeah, 10s is a pretty short lifetime.
No, no question in the ring by itself. The lifetime was like like half a second or something like that.
But energy was very, very small for high energy muons. Yeah, 10s lifetime is good, but it nowhere close to microseconds that we require.
So in this method, this method has the potential of being useful in the electron and collider, which are project to be built in Brookhaven.
Uh, if it has a lifetime of one hour. What was very cool in time of one hour, right.
So one meter. So, uh, one minute.
Uh 10s. And one hour were just choices.
Obvious. So there is only one way to like, time dilation effects could somehow structured.
They're like pretty outside the possibility. Um, yes.
Short answer is yes. What kind of service? I give that to Kenton for 5 to 15.
It's a few few milliseconds, but you still need to do cooling. Uh, again, faster than one turn.
Ideally. Like if you lose 1% in one turn of energy at the same time.
Just be aware. Uh, yes. Ideally, we would like to reduce beam size at the collision only.
So basically to avoid the problems.
But what I told you, in order to generate significant cooling effect, you need to lose momentum and replenish momentum.
Lose momentum. Potential momentum. Now assume that you want to have hundred time cooling time in time in the muon collider hundred kind of turns.
It means every turn you need to lose and replenish 1% of energy.
1% of energy at 50 is 50 GV.
So you need to put an absorber or something.
Some effect. So which kicks takes a piece of momentum out of five DV particle equal to 50 GV and replenish this 50 gv in one 250 GV of acceleration.
Question number one. One of the questions that the end of my previous why RF systems are so expensive.
Yes, they're super expensive. So 50 GV is twice bigger than any linear accelerator we've built so far.
So if you cost 50 GV linac of that type your cost say 4 billion right.
So again you see that's why again the most effective way we we conducted the scientist looked into where to apply this cooling.
What is the most effective energy. Because it's very high energies.
You need a lot of RF. So at very low energies there are problems within a beam, beam, beam lifetime and others.
So the optimum is around like hundred and 50 to 200 t. Maybe that's the that's the uh, that will be one of the topics of tomorrow school.
So when is this course by degrees reading this is really reading this lecture.
There is an optimal where this cooling can be applied. Usually it's low energy to muons.
It's a gamma factor of about three. Yes. Uh, it's not a question.
It's, uh, I want to ask you, for the purpose of, um, Kylie's question,
maybe you can say a few words about also lemma concepts for the Muon Collider and why it's interesting and no need to cool,
but the challenges also that come with it. I think it will be educational for this group.
Okay. Huh. Um, me, Geoff and Ben prepare a set of homework problems.
Um, hopefully, if you have an hour today, one of the six teams will get that question.
We hope you answered correctly. If not, there will be two hours of presentations and discussions on this.
This problems which we gave you and this where we will give you a good answer.
You will figure out for yourself why. Why the scheme is is not working.
But the idea is simple. Yeah. If you produce muons at the threshold, then, uh, the threshold,
the phase space in which particles can be created is phase space means product of size, times times energy.
Energy and velocity is very small. Particles can be created in very small ways.
Very small energy spread, very small velocity spread. But it doesn't work with many practical considerations.
It doesn't work. It completely doesn't work. Uh.
It's not. We will be part of your homework, but the cost of that system will be approximately $10 billion.
Right? So, uh, it will create enormous problems in, uh, in production radiation, uh, and it will have, uh, at the end,
after all these efforts, the luminosity of that collider will be, if not three, but then if not five, uh,
then by like three orders of magnitude less than for what we call traditional muon collider,
traditional muon collider is still so advanced compared to everything else so far that put in another one,
two, three, four miracles into these, uh, into the system doesn't doesn't help its feasibility.
Why? So in all complexity, complexity is by the way, it's important parameter for for colliders.
And it's because it's certain certain meaning. Remember I told you about factor complexity two.
Complexity three. Complexity four.
So muon collider out of the colliders operated so far the most complicated collider was from beam physics perspective.
Not accelerator, not particle physics. We're novelties.
We are Tevatron. Tevatron because of antiproton complex.
It had so much headache and usually nothing works right.
And the difference between the complexity of LHC and the Tevatron is a factor of two units, two units of complexity.
The Tevatron is more complex. So in that regard, FCC will be one unit, FCC one unit more complex than Tevatron and muon Collider.
It will be additional two units more complex than FCC. If not more so.
Um, to compare. So over the past 60 years, we made progress of approximately four units of complexity.
So 50 years is four units of complexity. So one unit essentially decayed of, you know, one unit complexity.
That's why I don't go that far. If you if you if a lifetime is limited quantity to move on.
Right. Don't go too far in complexity. And that's why I believe muon collider is the way to go.
You can see happen between two units of complexity.
Two decades, two decades of research. Okay here first.
I'll go first and then you can get the microphone. I'm sorry. You had a couple slides of Augustine from Stanford.
Um, you had a couple slides on space church tune shifts.
Um, but I think that was only in the context of proton beam lines.
So can you describe the distinctions that space charge tune shifts will have in comparison for proton beam lines versus muon beam lines,
and perhaps and also electron beam lines? Sorry.
Again, as Jeff said, everything we present in an hour usually is given with good old details in two weeks.
Course, right. So the space shuttle students use the formula, which you probably didn't have time to, to capture the otaku space charge limit.
It's proportional to intensity divided by gamma squared and normalized impedance.
So if you have one GV proton gamma is equal to one.
If you have one GV electron one jubilation gamma is equal to 2000.
So instead of one square here in the denominator for electrons you have 2000 squared 4,000,004 million times suppressed for the same intensity.
Muons are ten times lighter right.
So gamma factor for one GV muon is only ten right.
And ten squared is condit. So for protons this factor is one divided by one.
For electrons is one divided by 4 million for ten to the sixth.
So for electrons protons and for muons it's one divided by hundred.
That's it. Nothing for the same intensity, the same energy.
One GV for protons. Effect is humongous for electrons.
Effect is non-existent for muons. Effect is large but tolerable.
Plus we we don't know how to generate the same number of muons as the number of protons of electrons.
We know how to generate. So this P yeah might be a problem, but probably will not be ever right.
That that makes a difference. Gamma factor due to the mass is so much different.
Um, so I wanted to ask about collective effects. Um, not just with the beam beam, but also for the cooling, because I know this was single particle.
Is there any concern about collective effects in the cooling, uh, sections?
Does that matter, or does single particle transfer over pretty well?
Yeah. Um, okay.
The answer is yes, but we usually figure out how to how to work around that.
Um, there is only one method of cooling where collective effects kill everything, but fundamentally it's called stochastic cooling.
In stochastic cooling, you need to have a system which can recognize differentially recognize motion of individual particles.
Right. If you I told you the example, if you have just two particles in the LHC, would be relatively easy to put each particle on the right orbit.
Basically we call them cool down, put in the right perfect orbit in ten turns, no question.
Right? But if you have ten to the 14 particles, the distance between them is so short that essentially there is no way to distinguish,
you know, particle one from particle two. And in that case, what we see instead of in the feedback systems we pick up, right?
We see the effect which is proportional to the total number of particles within
the bandwidths or whatever resolution of your if you've been position monitor.
And that is totally collective effect. And if you measure the motion of the of the, you know, out of ten to the 14 particles,
you measure ten to the 12 of them, collective motion you have, yes, ten to the 12 particles go up and down.
You can correct it, but it still will be, you know, blob like that going back and forth.
You can you can correct you can correct central orbit of the blob of particles, but you can make this blob of particles small enough.
It doesn't cool. Right? So that's the only method which is intrinsically dependent on the intensity of the particles.
For all other methods like electron cooling is is not that dependent on intensity of the particles, more dependent on energy of the particles.
It's very high and doesn't work right.
Um, so, uh, ionization cooling, it might have problems with at very high intensities, but I leave it to two degrees to explain.
Probably, you know, we will not see much of that effect.
Problem is that high intensity muon bunch still has a charge when it goes to absorber absorbers.
It's not exactly plasma right. But it's something that not particularly like like liquid, uh, liquid hydrogen.
It's a liquid. Right. So whatever happens in the ionization trace of uh, of, uh, of the absorber is the interesting story, because here of the moon,
bunch of bunch is very, very intensive, can excite some, some unwanted motion of charges in the absorber because yeah, it ionizes observer.
Right. So will that be of a problem again.
So far I haven't cured any any super bad effects out of there.
It might be might not be the case to be explored. It's a one of the again we don't know all the answers.
But again so far we don't think it's totally limit in effect, right?
Am I right? Yeah. There are many opinions.
The main significant collective effect in the cooling is the beam loading and the RF cavities in the first few stages.
Yeah, because you have very high intensity, which could be the limiting intensity factor,
uh, of the muon collider could be, but it's not an observer in the cavities.
Yes. Good point. Thank you. Okay, I have a question.
I'm just curious if, uh, there's a plausible range of energy for a circular muon collider where,
uh, cooling via synchrotron radiation might be able to handle a large portion of the.
No. What would happen, like, if I got, like, six PV?
Um, some some humongous number TV 6000 to come with?
Yeah. Why? Why is it possible? Why is this something that happens with, uh.
Uh oh? You're just saying that's how long it would take to make it have be so boosted that the lifetime.
Let it do it. Um. Oh.
Yeah. Like lifetime. Lifetime will be long enough. It's it's no problem.
But the point is that synchrotron radiation losses per turn, delta e proportional to energy of the particle divided by a radius.
Right. And of course, for particles lighter than electron, uh, it will be uh, mu e fourth power basically gamma gamma factor.
That's one of the formulas we have shown. Right. Point is that for very high energies, yes, muon is 200 times heavier.
Right. So we know that effect will be uh, will be weaker.
Right. But at certain moment and it basically gamma factor of mu and this is nothing but gamma right.
So basically proportional to gamma for power. Right.
At the moment gamma for muon becomes so large that it will lose essentially all the energy in one term.
It just doesn't make sense. Right. And uh, that energy is like an estimate for like ten kilometer machine, uh, or 100 kilometer machine.
Whatever radius is here, I forgot it's like few PV, a few PV just out of.
And it can be considerations of energy, just energy.
How much energy you need to restore just doesn't make sense.
Yeah. You have you have, uh, one, one PV muon, um, uh, in, uh, like hundred kilometer ring and you need to put one electron volt every turn.
It's totally inefficient. So consider LHC, which is, you know, 70 V proton and the RFK which is, which operate there.
They, they essentially deliver of less than the effective voltage of each particle C and going through the, through the the zero right.
This is no energy. So it's a super efficient right. No no no.
Plus yeah there is a lifetime is probably at this energies.
Lifetime will be sufficient for everything.
But just out of energy consideration you lose so much you don't want to go there with some energy where you get an appreciable lifetime and then yeah,
yeah, but it's not. It's not very far. It's not very far.
So basically, um, one of the slides I showed that the first lecture, the very last slide is the ultimate colliders.
Ultimate colliders. So circle and muon colliders have a kind of reasonable and low chance to be built within certain costs.
Certain time and certain luminosity. Only deal about.
30 or maximum 50 tera electron volts.
Center of mass energy like even 1015 is okay. 30 will be extremely challenging.
Right? So and that close to over 100 tera electron volts, you need to form fermions or more.
You need to switch to linear linear muon colliders.
But that is another 1 to 3 units of complexity.
And it's another three decades of research easily, if not more so, linear muon colliders.
Um, very challenging. So, um, okay.
Um, let's thank Vladimir again. Thank you. So just a quick announcement for the break.
