# Muon Collider Ionization Cooling Channel, Katsuya Yonehara

All right, folks. So welcome back. Um, we have our next session, um, with Katsuya, who's going to tell us about ionization cooling for muon VMs.
And we'll go, um, until 1230. Okay.
So, Katsuya, would you like to take it away? All right. Can you hear us?
Can you hear me? Yeah. All right. So the mic is on, right?
Okay. So, uh.
Yeah. Uh, my task is are giving her, like, a lecture for the organization of cooling.
So let me start. So my name is Katsuya and Ihara.
Uh, I'm a senior scientist at the Fermilab. Um, so I'm, um, I'm working on that.
Right. Experimental physics. Uh, which means I'm working on that accelerator as well as particle physics.
Uh, so during the map era, um, I, uh, work on the, um, the, uh, the cooling channel design, like a helicopter cooling channel.
Um, but there I also work, uh, like RF breakdown, um, experiment.
Uh, so if you, you also have, like, a question about the, like, RF cavity stuff, maybe you can, uh, grab me and ask me question.
So I'm currently working on, uh, high power targets for the neutrino experiments.
Uh, so therefore, um, this, like, the subjects I'm working on, is a kind of like a, um, like a spare time.
I use, uh, to prepare, uh, so you can, uh, contact me, uh, during a, like, a lecture, but you can also email me.
Uh, I also have, like, a slack chat, uh, for the us FCC.
Um, if you have any question, just, uh, uh, Riker, uh, using a selection.
All right. So, scope of the, uh, this lecture, uh, the my goal is, are, uh, because I work there like a my uncle,
I have a business for probably, uh, more than ten years in the past, so I think.
Ah, and now we have a very, uh, good enthusiasm.
Um, I try to like, uh, uh, conduct, uh, convey my past experience to, like, a young folks.
So that's like a my major goal. Uh, so, uh, therefore that this lecture, um, I expect, uh, our engineer, uh,
students, uh, like, uh, science or something, uh, or researcher, whatever.
Uh, but I expect, uh, because this is the second day for the accelerator school.
Uh, I expect that you have some knowledge about, like, accelerator physics.
If you don't have, like, a Naresh. Don't worry. Uh, you can ask me, uh, but but that is like my basic assumption.
I also expect that you have some basic knowledge about the mechanical, uh, dynamics and, uh, electromagnetism.
Um, so that's that's like a, uh, minimum requirement.
So the contents of my talk. So I first got very, uh, briefly overview the beam collider, which is the stimulus like of what the data show.
Uh, I'm sorry. So there some overlapping, uh, but I provide something different there, uh, prospects then, uh, I will discuss about that.
I can say variation in a cooling channel. And, uh, the finally, uh, I provide you some framework.
So the how like, actually, the physics in general is, uh, uh, uh, build up, uh,
to express about the, uh, generic accelerator as well as a cooling down there.
All right, so this is my recommended paper and the, uh, textbook.
Uh, so the first one, uh, this one is a kind of entry level textbook, but this is has a very, uh, rich, uh, textbook so that you can find the,
the basic idea with a particular set of physics, uh, uh, series of, uh, providing a very famous textbook, which is a kind of like a expert level.
But there, uh, once you understand this one, I think you could, uh, be that this one as well.
Uh, the bottom three, uh, papers, uh, corresponds to their, uh, more theoretical part, uh, this one, uh, uh, very relevant there for the,
uh, Alex, guys provide this, uh, paper, which is very general, very, uh, uh, mathematical, but this contains a lot.
So like, uh, um, uh, accelerator physics, uh, especially like, uh, if you have a,
like, a coupling structure, uh, but you can generalize like a you are right.
Uh uh uh, Hamiltonian. Uh, very, uh, beautiful.
Uh, and this, uh, uh, paper is based on like, uh, dependance paper.
And uh, uh, I also, uh, suggest maybe you, if you have a chance to, uh, uh, read this one, uh,
this one also very like a general and very theoretical, but it's very, like a bit subjects.
All right. So let's start the overview of the collider.
Uh, I'm again I'm sorry. So some of the part that is overlapping what there David showing um, and uh, provide the last uh,
yesterday, uh uh uh, the Vladimir gave some talk uh, that's also covering the most part.
But let me go through, uh, as you know.
So we start from the proton driver, we create, uh, like a, uh, prepare a very intense proton beam and send it to the target.
And as Dave showing, uh, we have a front end to collect the pions, uh,
and the means and the massaging of phase space and send it to the occluding channel.
Now, the reason is because the initial rank of me on phase space is, uh, fairly large.
Uh, usually I said like a basketball size at the beginning and, uh, joining the cooling,
uh, we make a, uh, like a beam of, like a very TV time is, uh, phase space.
So that is, that happens during this, uh, this time.
Then we send to the accelerator why we need a such a, like, a low, uh, small beam.
The reason is because, like, all our stories starts from the luminosity.
Uh, I believe, Vadim, you are showing what I call this luminosity.
Uh, calculation. So this, uh, formula, like our, uh, numerator corresponds to the the number of particles that's an enemy of the enemy of minus.
And the f is like our liberation time. And the NBS are, uh, like a repulsion power.
And, uh, uh, then, I mean, the denominator corresponds to, like, the size of the beam.
So this means, like, the luminosity is forming. Like how what is a flux over there?
A muons at the collision point. So that's a, uh, main idea.
And as you see, we try to build the, like our, uh, luminosity, uh, more than ten to the 34, uh, uh, per square centimeter per seconds to,
to reach this numbers, uh, we have some recognizable numbers, uh, the number of, uh, muons per batch.
Is about a ten to the 12th. And the liberation means that like a within a, like a criteria.
Uh, we have a, like a thousand revolutions, uh, before, uh, dump.
And the number of repetition is like a five hertz beats like every five hail.
I mean, uh, every seconds we send a, like, a proton beam to the target, like, a five times.
Okay, then, uh, Sigma is, uh, the arm has to be in spot size at a collision point.
So this is like our, uh, uh, general, uh, cable.
What is like our, uh, record luminosity we achieve in the past and in the future for the collider.
Um, so I show, like a Tevatron, LHC, uh, high energy, uh, electron ion collider, uh, super quickly.
And here. Okay, that's, uh, like our, uh.
Yeah, she's still building like a, uh, the stats from a, uh, 2031, but the other part,
other like a collider has already built, uh, on for the, uh, antiproton LHC.
Proton, proton, uh, high luminaries, uh, proton, proton, UIC, uh, so far, uh, electron and proton.
And this is bucket B uh e plus e minus. Uh, here I e plus minus and uh, protons and the center of mass energy.
So the, uh, big white bar, it's, uh, that's depend on that, uh, physics, uh, what kind of physics you achieved.
And a single Ma here is, uh, the size of the B, uh, at the collision point.
Uh, you see that? Okay, uh, pretty wide variations.
And you can see, like, a proton beam is a there to make a, uh, record more than, like a ten micron, uh, mater.
And the electron beam is quite smaller.
Um, the reason is because, uh, uh, uh, record repetition rate is, uh, uh, relatively small for the, uh, electron beam.
So that's the reason why, to gain the luminosity, they need a, like a, uh, a smaller beam size.
And as you see, uh, luminosity they achieve is like a ten to the sally force.
So our case, uh, okay.
Muon collider, uh, that's, uh, what we are discussing now, uh, we try to build, like, a three TV or ten TV, uh, center mass.
And we we are. We should have a, like, a beam spot size at the collision point, like less than two micrometer,
which is a slightly larger than, like a, uh, electron beam, but it has already very challenging.
And the reason is because the repetition rate we have, it is like a five hertz, uh, to reach the like at the side before.
So I always see, uh, like a beam of spot size of like a other amount you to smaller uh, FCC H.H. uh, again.
So this is a proton proton beam.
So therefore the, uh, the like a size is, uh, close to, like, a, uh, ten micrometer, and they could reach, like, a ten to satisfy.
All right. So, uh.
Okay, so I gave her, like, the number.
Very like a, uh, knife, uh, number now. So, uh, we want to build, like, our, the BMB.
Uh, we said like, a ten to the 12 spy bands to reach their luminosity and their, uh, as you heard from our, um, uh, they talk, uh,
we start like, our, uh, emitters, like, uh, 20, uh, medium, uh, 20 millimeter, uh, and reach down to, like, a 20, uh, micrometer, um, radio.
I'm sorry. So this is us, uh, wrong. This is like a normalized diameters so that the node is the normalized evidences
that you have to multiply beta gamma to the right of mechanical evidence.
The idea is to normalize emitters. It's not, uh, uh, nothing to do with the energy.
So the energy independent parameter. So that's the reason why like cooling channel people using a normalized emitters.
So, um, as I said, like the proton beam, very dense proton beam, uh, we typically design, like a ten to the 15 proton power scale.
The reason is because we know, like our, uh, in the past design, uh, neon capture rate is about like a 10%.
So that is kind of like a optimum condition.
So this means that, like, uh, even we send a, like, a ten to the 15 proton beam on the target,
but most likely we collect, like, up to ten to the 14 meals possible.
Right. And the during like a cooling channel, like a front and the cooling channels,
I provide you that like a scale of the, uh, like a, uh, front end, a cooling channel to reach like a ten to a 12.
We only like a boost up.
I mean, like a, uh, transmission efficiency we should achieve, at least within, like, a, uh, front end of cooling is like a 1% range.
Okay, so this sounds like a very, like a, um, big, like a Taurus.
But, uh, in reality, this is very hard. The reason is because the Mumbai actually naturally decay.
So that's like a one of the reasons. Okay. So in a cooling channel I don't go through the detail.
So, uh, we try to shrink the, uh, beam spot size.
So what this means, uh, this curve, uh, showing, like our, uh, the particle showing a, like,
a longitudinal, maybe eight meters and the, uh, horizontal and vertical transverse semitones.
So those numbers are normalized value, and we start from here.
Okay. And the starting point, as they meant we start from Riker.
Uh, transverse emitters is about 20 millimeter ready.
And the joining the like a cooling. So the the phase space as is uh, like a moving from here to here and we have like a bunch of March, uh,
statement so that initially we created like a ten to the, uh, 21 bunch structure and we merged together, uh, making like a single bunch.
Then we could again, because, uh, during a, uh, bunch merging,
we actually stuck a neon beam in a transverse direction as, whereas a horizontal, uh, there don't change now.
So this means a joining a bunch of Mars. We actually increase the, like, a, uh, emitters a little bit.
So we need to start from here, and we have a second cooling channel, uh, six dimensional cooling channel, uh, to reach the right Riker.
Uh, like a, uh, 100, 200, uh, millimeter micrometer.
And finally, so that we have our the so-called the final cooling, uh, and, uh,
you can see longitudinally it's actually increase, but the transverse would still keep going down.
So we reach, like a 20 micrometer, uh, at the end of the occluding channel.
So that is like our, uh, design goal. So you can see, uh, from here to here, we have to reduce the, like, our, uh, ten to the minus three, right?
So that's like our, uh, this the scale. Interestingly, uh, you might notice.
So this is a start point and this is the end point. We actually make a record this path to make a like a only transverse recording.
But the longitudinal actually, uh, at the end of the occluding channel, it's actually the similar as a starting point.
So that that is like a interesting part of the cooling channel. So, uh, okay, so here is a question.
Uh, so what I said. Oh.
So there, uh, so that we know, like, a luminosity, uh, calculation and I provide, like,
a number of a million beam and the the deliberation time and, uh, repetition time.
So you have a number here and making are, uh, ten to the 34, what is like a, uh, like a, uh, spot size you need.
And the answer is definitely, uh, two micrometer. So you know the answer.
But but you have to provide like a how you get the, like, a two micrometer.
And once you get the two micrometer, uh, what is the, like, a beta star you have to have.
So the beta star is, ah, I believe I, I hope you understand, like a basic rate of physics.
So the, uh, beta function is, ah, sort of like a member of our, uh, parameter.
So it's showing the, like how much like a beam, a spot size, uh, you, you achieve at the, uh, collision point.
So, uh, if you have, uh, spot size, oops, spot size, then you should be able to find what is a beta star.
You you should have to reach the like a ten to the 34.
Okay. So that is a like a second question. All right.
So uh, next uh uh topic is ah does reduction.
All right, so, uh, first I'd like to provide you what is the initial condition of the Damien's.
Um, so Damien is actually, uh, coming from a crack addict parents.
How do you create a Pi? We send the product to the target, uh, and the creating, uh, piles.
And this is definitely the harder and you can interactions. Um, so this mixer, uh, a Pi office space is kind of like a distributed, right?
Even like a proton beam is very, very narrow beam. And then, uh, pi r is decay, uh, uh, through the, uh, weak interactions.
So, uh, this decay process also, uh, stochastic means like a we cannot predict where the pion decays explicitly.
So just like a two process has already like an increase, like a phase space volume.
And I also provide a some, uh, notebook. Uh, the Python lifetime is like a, uh, 26 micron, uh, 26 seconds.
So this means that if a gamma is one record, the total length is like a, uh, like a 7.8m.
So means, uh, write the initial, like, uh, after you create a pions, maybe 20, ten, 20m, uh, channel like a most Pi or SDK write.
So unfortunately, we create a moon. But the mirrors of decay like a, uh, similar as, like a, like a, uh, like a electroweak interactions.
And again, so that, uh, muon lifetime is, ah, there is a finite lifetime, which is ah, uh, 2.2 microseconds.
So the naively, uh, a medium lifetime is a 100 times, uh, longer than the Pio, but still,
like our, uh, the scale is like a micro, uh, microseconds if, ah, the gamma is one.
So if I calculate, uh, what is the path length? Uh, like a for the, like a dichotomy, which is like a 700m.
Of course, like a gamma is not one. Uh, for our case, it's typically like a, uh, 2 or 3.
So therefore, this length is there about like a, uh, 50, 100m or something.
Okay. But I idea so that, uh, if you have a, like a cooling channel which tolerate is like a 50 100m,
you have already lose, uh, a Savio or 40% of the muons.
Uh, so that's the reason why I said 1%.
Sounds like a very, uh, victorious. But there the cooling channel is more than like a 5000 meters.
You significantly lose the muons by only naturally the like a decay.
I also point out here, uh, what is like a know energy spread.
So I demonstrated so the Pi on uh, closed, right Pi, um, production, etc., uh,
from the stochastic process, like a hadronic process, probably probabilistic process.
And also Python decays like a stochastic. So that's actually increased the like a phase space.
And this is like example. So the how Python distribute uh through the uh hadronic interactions.
So uh, we collect like a soft pions which means like uh, those pions uh, coming from our so-called that, uh, delta resonance decay.
So the delta is like our, uh, our, um, excitation energy over the excitation state of the protons.
So the, uh, typical mass of the, uh, this resonance is like a around the, uh, 1200 DB.
So this means that to make a pions, you should have a, like, a threshold,
which is about like a 200 EVs if the proton beam is more than 200, and if you start creating a Pi.
Um, yeah. And the resulting pion, uh, energy is, uh, very low energy, up to 300 MV.
Uh, on the other hand. So the pion decay and the creating a muons and the muon.
Uh, is, uh uh, if you look at the, uh, the Pi on this frame.
So the kinetic energy of the ameo, uh, resulting from the, uh, uh, stationary, uh, pions is only five.
So this means most like a, uh, initial phase space, uh, distribution come from pions, but the muon itself after decay.
This is like a this distribution is negligible by comparing the like a pie of distribution.
So, uh, I explain here. Uh, so this means like a, uh, again, initial million phase space is most likely caused by the pio.
Pio. Like a process. So, uh.
So again, the notebook, uh, Pyramus and me on bass are very similar.
So therefore, again, so that, uh, this for me, the contribution is negligible.
And the other notebook, uh, so, okay, so this is like a one possible suggestion, as you said, as I said.
So the the Python initial Python phase space is actually contribute drastically for the new phase space.
If you could make a smaller pie in phase space, then probably we can significantly mitigate.
I mean, uh, the, the rest of the like a cooling I know becomes much simpler.
But definitely Python has a some strong interaction we cannot use there.
I mean, we can still apply, right, our ization cooling channel for the pions, but definitely you have to take into account the hadronic interactions.
So maybe we have more loss of the pions and the pion has a shorter lifetime.
So that is the like along with the difficulties. Why we have like a front end channel, what the data show.
This is like a like a standard way to make a bump.
But again so I don't say this is not possible.
Maybe you can find some way like a, like a very clever way, you can find like a the initial pion small incipient phase space.
Okay. So here is the challenge of the, uh, how Riker making alloy beats me on beam.
So, as I said. So there, uh, you tell me, um, phase space is like a much more size.
I mean, uh, basketball size. And we want to make a very small, tiny TV.
Tiny space, uh, you know, beam. Uh, so, uh.
But mio has a lifetime. So therefore, uh, we should have a, like, a very rapid cooling, uh, uh, process.
We have to cool down transversely so you can neglect the longitudinal if you have idea,
so that you can like a significantly cooler transversely by, uh, like a, uh, three orders of magnitude within, like a, uh, finite lifetime.
Your wiener. Okay.
But right now, so that, uh, our current design, we need, like, a longitudinal Cooney and we gain, like, uh, longitudinal cooling and, uh,
depress the longitudinal phase space into the transverse phase space to make a, uh,
like a disappointing, uh, studio that has a magnitude for the transverse gallery.
So that's the reason why we have, like, a 60 cooling Jamil and, uh, like a cooling performance, like a ten to the minus six.
So that's what I got. I can I show transversely, like, a ten to the minus three.
One pressure, another ten to the minus three for the other prey.
Right. So the total direction ten to the minus six.
And the transmission efficiency has to be like more than 1%.
Um. Okay. Yeah. So I mentioned here.
So the again, we don't need a location according.
If you have a way to like a transpose recall by the order of magnitude.
So that's what I gather possible. Right? Our design opportunity.
But to make a like a this like a 60 query, we realize like organization cutting is the only practical solution.
Okay. So before moving on, I like I, um, explaining about ization, including I just say like a what is like a cooling.
The cooling is actually this very similar conceptually very similar as a like a refrigerator or like a you are like air conditioner.
So the idea is if you have a, like a heat objects, you want to cool down these heat objects.
You prepare like a cold objects in the making like a heat exchange.
Right. So that's like a cooling. We do the same thing.
Exactly. Same thing for the ionization cooling. So I describe here the temperature with the heat.
Uh, the hot material is like a, uh, TV.
These are actually the temperature. And, uh, like, I was all about temperature, like a UPS.
And definitely to make a, like, a heat flow that's like a corresponds to, uh, Q Prime.
Okay. Uh, so heat from this heat for a happens where this temperature is higher than this temperature, right.
If both temperature is the same, then there's, there's a, uh, uh, effectively.
So that heat flow exchange happens between but they're, um, like a stationary state.
It's like a, there's no, like a heat, uh, transfer at all.
So that's a we call that equilibrium condition, right.
All right. So the heat transfer rate, you can you know this very simple calculation.
And uh, this one is that like a heat transfer.
Uh Q is as a function of at a time, but but our case the beam propagates through the occluding absorber.
So we change the, uh, a denominator to their, uh, pass ranks like a s, so, but still, like, uh, this calculation should be the same.
All right. So in this, like, uh, like a formula, as you see, to maximize a Q prime, uh, h and a constant.
So therefore, uh, to make a, like, a most, like, efficiently, uh, make a, uh,
heat transfer delta t, then it asks if the delta t is zero, there's no heat transfer at all.
So the idea of the cooling channel, we want to like a making a rate like a delta T as large as possible.
Um, so I also describe here, uh, you can also use it like a entropy, like a concept of the entropy.
So the entropy change is uh, uh, not sure relative.
Some over like initial temperature versus final temperature.
Right. So we can do the same thing for the cooling, uh, the, the beam query again, we try to recall, uh, did using a phase space, uh, volume.
So this means that we, we should translate the phase space into the beam temperature.
Right? So, uh, if we have a, like, a translate the beam temperature, then we try to make our, uh, delta T as large as possible.
So that is the exactly happens if we, uh, send a, like, a D into the, uh, uh, focusing objects.
All right. So means like a this is like a very, uh, simple cartoon.
Uh, so this, like, a, uh, box corresponds to the focusing, uh, magnet, and the each tag line corresponds to the, the particle trajectory.
Uh, so this picture of difference are very simple.
Uh, but the red curve showing, like, our, uh, starts from here and, uh, going to the focusing magnet and then, uh, making a focusing means like a,
the the beam is bent and the reaching to the right at this point, and it goes through and to,
uh, achieve, uh, reaching the, this magnet and again, the focusing and the focusing.
So the red curve is this kind of zigzag structure.
The same happens to like a magenta. So the magenta starts from the opposite side.
But again focusing on the D focusing.
Right. So as you see the phase space this is like our uh so-called the phase space.
Uh, the particles are showing, uh, momentum, transverse momentum and uh, horizontal sharing the, the beam position.
So the let's start from our. Let's start from a negative, a point.
Uh, I'm sorry. So this might be. Oh, here. Okay. So.
We measure office space here in the middle of the focus environment.
So this case the beam spot size is maximum.
Okay. But momentum is minimal.
So that's the reason why phase space is showing drag this way. Okay.
But after like a focusing magnet. So the face space actually starts rotating like a counterclockwise or clockwise I'm sorry.
Like a at here. Uh, so the uh, because the focusing magnetic there, the, uh, the particle transversely.
So therefore this particle is ago it was in the like a making sound like a rotation.
And that's like a focusing point. And the face space is kind of like a, uh, elliptical shape is, uh, by degree large, but the horizontal is smaller.
Means like a transverse momentum is maximized at the focusing point.
And the, uh, the beaver spot sizes is the minimum.
Okay, so that is like our fundamental of the being focusing in a, uh, like a focused environment.
Is that clear? Okay, so this means our, uh.
Right, uh, that the momentum can be translated to the a temperature.
So the higher momentum means that you have a higher temperature. So at the center, the middle of the, uh, focusing less, uh, focusing magnet.
Transverse momentum is minimum, means the temperature is low, but the spot size is large,
but at the focusing point is opposite, so the temperature is maximized, but the focusing the beam spot size is minimal.
Okay, so if we put the absorber here, then you expect so that there is like a place so that we could maximize the like a heat exchange.
Right. So that is the idea of the like a cooling channel.
So if we put the absorber here then we could make like a lodging I mean, uh, phase space cooling.
Again the entropy is a very similar.
Uh, so we call like a this like a size over there, like a phase space we call the habitat.
Uh, if we call down the B so many times, uh, the entropy also goes down.
Okay. I hope it's clear.
All right. So, uh, like a microscopically how we transfer the, like, the heat.
So we use, like, a, uh, like a cooler interactions.
So, uh, red curve, uh, that, uh, like, a bore is like a mirror and a black point.
These are, uh, fully electrons.
Okay, so if a muons hitting an electron, there's a some, like, uh, uh, cooler interactions in the mirror, uh, pushing that like electrons.
And to me, on this energy, this very simple calculation.
Uh, so the energy transfer from me on into the electrons and, uh, the transfer, uh, energies delta e, right.
So, uh, actually this is a like a cooling.
So the cooling rate is very simple, right?
You divide like a, uh, transfer the energy divided by the kinetic energy.
That's all. Okay. That is like a cooling, uh, recruiting efficiency.
In the case of elastic, you have a, like, extra, like a, uh, um, like a, um, energy term, which is like, ah,
exciting or making some, like, additional, like a, uh, translate, uh, transforming some other particles, whatever.
But there is a is the same.
So the any kind of energy loss we, we, uh, uh, takes, takes place then me um, beam actually, uh, is cooling, um, during this process.
And if you have like a multiple, uh, cases, you know, beam definitely is losing energy.
So therefore we, uh, clear out.
That may not be. So, um.
So this, like, a process.
Uh, we have a, uh, formula, which is there, uh, as you know, like a business equation, which is like a, uh, this is a very simple structure.
And I would tell you.
So, uh, if we know, like, average number of collisions and we know what is like, average energy loss, like a that's a, uh, like a ionization process.
So that's a sometimes we call like a W and a w just sometimes we call like an electron ion pair production energy so that,
uh, we guesstimate uh rd I also point out here so d d x is like just simply like energy loss.
But this is like energy loss per unit length means like, uh, uh, you you you can say this is like equivalent to like a force.
Right. So this this one we sometimes call like a damping force.
Okay. So if you read the recorded textbook for the recording, people sometimes use it like a damping force.
That is actually d the x. Right. Okay.
Uh, okay. So that looks like if you send a beam into the like a, uh, observer or electron cloud.
So we could make like actually, unfortunately life is not so easy.
So the we always have a some like a disadvantage. So that is like a heating.
Uh, so uh what I say. Oh. So the margin for scattering, uh, takes place uh, during a, like a, uh, regular interaction process.
So the margin for scattering actually in use are like a, like a cooler interaction.
We just like a, uh, telling, like our we are only like a transfer.
Like a transfer. The, the, uh, energy into the like a cooling objects.
But definitely this cooling object have a different super force.
So therefore, uh, like an incident particle, have a, some liquid energy.
This cause, uh, like a heating effect that is there if you have a, like a multiple time, like a,
like a heating, then like a this, like our, uh, heating effects, it's not negligible at all.
That is called a magical scattering. Um, so this is like a, the simulation, uh, results.
Um, I send, like, a, um, like a zero transverse evidence.
Me, um, beam into there only ten millimeter thick.
Uh, liquid hydrogen, of course, the start points is like a point.
Pointy. Uh, this is like a, uh, spatial distribution of the beam.
Uh, after the, uh, goes through the, uh, like a cooling absorber.
And as you see, uh, like a the beam is actually distributed.
This is like a heating due to the magical scattering. And the interestingly, I use it like a, uh, G4 beam.
Right. That's a gen4 versus the simulation code. And interestingly, I see like a 3D structure, distinct structure.
I think this is like a, uh, artifacts that is may not be the truth, but anyway,
uh, like a very sharp peak, I think come from a pure like electron interactions.
So, so to recap, uh, me, um, beam, uh, just to scatter the electrons and their, uh, electrons, making some recoil.
So that's reason why there is a distribution create created by the such kind of cool interactions.
Orange one is coming from our, uh, like a secondary, like our, uh,
secondary white distribution, which I think coming from a, like a territory production.
Um, okay. I think this is artifacts, but but the data is that, uh, you sometimes say like our, uh, muon,
uh, has, like, a head on collision with electrons, and the electron is a very high energy.
Some people are very care about what I call, uh, the the delta ray process.
I think the jet for creating our, uh, special rack of, um, uh, like a, uh, like a,
uh, probability, like a trace to create a, like, a delta like production.
So that's the reason why we have, like, a very distinct structure.
But I think in nature, this should be a very, uh, smooth distribution.
And the last one, the biggest one is like a so showing you like a good one.
That is like our decoded energy from nuclei.
That's, uh, in case of the hydrogen, that's a like a hydrogen molecule.
So um, so this is the biggest contribution for the heating effects.
So we always fighting against like a marginal scattering, uh, when you design a, like a cooling channel.
Right. Okay. So. I gave you the very basic, naive picture, very intuitive pictures.
Okay, so now we try to work on some mathematics.
Okay. Sorry. Maybe you feel sleepy, but I try to go through very quickly.
All right. So this is like the, uh, start point.
Uh, so the noise, uh. I'm sorry, emit us, uh, as a function of our, uh, pass ranks.
So if you have, like, uh, uh, deviation of the normalized evidence, which is actually, uh, normalized evidence is a beta gamma times their,
uh, uh, mechanical evidence, and you apply like, ah, uh, this deviation into, uh, two parts.
Okay. So that's like our very start point.
Uh, so this term has actually, uh, I say that like a heating term.
So, um, so that, uh, beta gamma is actually, uh, could like, uh, integrate, I mean, uh, decomposing like a city parts and each parts, uh, almost zero.
Uh, that's a based on the assumption. But this assumption is very naively, um, uh, applicable for any coding channel.
So do not worry about that. Like this assumption for now okay.
But we have only contribution this guy, which is like, uh, this guy I believe, which is actually, uh, uh, much more scattered in.
Oh, I'm sorry. So this is still zero. Okay. And, uh, this contribution is, uh, is a marginal scattering.
Okay. So this means that, like, a spatial distribution could be like, ah, uh, they dropped when particle go through the more coding I was over.
So that that is the reason why this cannot be neglected. So that we should have a this one.
Okay. All right. So, uh, so this, uh, sigma, um, uh, theta square is actually coming from our, uh, multiple scattering formula.
So you might be familiar with this, uh, formula. So we, uh, demand this one.
Okay. Uh, on the other hand, the first term.
Uh, yeah. Oh.
Second term. Okay. So I think probably the place.
But the second term. So the the VB uh, beta gamma dz is actually uh energy deduction due to that like, uh, uh, cooling, which I'm.
Yeah, I mean, uh, I cooling okay.
So, uh, you, you get the laggards and DVS is, uh, we, we depress into the RAC a better equation.
That's it. Like a damping force. Okay.
So therefore, uh, uh, the, the last phase, uh, again, so we have a like a this equation and uh, uh, so for the equilibrium condition, as I said,
if the temperature between, um, beam temperature versus like a core, I mean, uh, absorber temperature at a similar, then there's no wrecker.
Um, uh, like a heat transfer at all.
So this case happens, uh, if ah, if I put it this way as zero, then you get the, like a, uh, equilibrium.
Uh, the, the minimum evidence. This is so-called the equilibrium emitters.
Um, and you can estimate the equilibrium.
Does, uh, like this. Okay. So.
This means, uh, if you want to have a, like, a quarter, I mean, smaller emitters.
This, uh, equation tells you so which parameter you have to deal.
So the beta is again beta function that's like a pair of, uh, parameters is a numerator means that if a beta is smaller, you have a lower emissions.
And uh, so if this is bigger, it's bigger again.
So the that's the denominator. You can destroy methods.
Right. And the error is uh, error is uh, uh, their uh, radiation length.
That's depending upon the material. If you have like a, uh, larger error, again, you gain like a lower, uh, admittance.
Right. So that is like a what is essential parts to design, like a cooling channel.
You try to find, you find like a, um, like a cooling absorber which has a, like a longer it are in the dirt with large, uh, the eaves.
And when you design like a cooling channel, you try to like a ditch, like a low beta.
All right. Okay.
So, uh, on the other hand, the longitudinal phase space again, uh, I go through very quickly.
Uh, we decomposing that actually parts and again, so that we can set out some part or neglect some parts and uh,
only one part, which is, ah, I think a momentum spread.
Uh. I think this guy, this guy's demeaning.
That's a actually so-called energy struggling, as I said.
So the, uh, energy, uh, the recoil energy induces, um, like a distribution.
The distribution happens not only transversely but also longitudinally.
So the energy spread caused by the marginal scattering.
We sometimes call this scattering process as a, uh, like a, uh, energy struggling.
Okay. So we apply that energy strike straggling, uh, formula into that space.
And then finally we get those two components.
Okay. Uh, so, uh, we also have like our, uh, new parameters, which is like our, uh, uh, g x, y and GR, we call these parameters.
Uh uh, yeah, it's coupling parameter, but it's called their, uh.
Partition. Right. So the partition number. So this partition number is, uh, uh, is presenting.
So the data I tell you, so that we can induce a sound like a transverse longitudinal coupling that is like our,
um, this is like a sort of a, like a coupling.
Questions? It's not like our total sum is not the one, but but if we induce like, uh, the, uh, the, the dispersion, then we could have, uh,
have some like a fraction g uh, g x and y that is, uh, contributing for the transverse phase, uh, cooling and a g er for that origin, actually.
Okay. So, uh, okay.
So that's a kind of, uh, detail, so that, uh, g r is actually the, um, uh, deviation of the d x and the this is,
uh, like a, this is a, like a the curve showing like a momentum versus r uh, g l okay.
And, uh, you notice, like, if, you know, the banded block, uh, curve.
So there is a, like a minimum ionization point, which is there uh, sometimes people call MIP the case of origami on beam.
Uh, the point is about like a 350 MIB overseas.
So if our, uh, like, uh, the deviation of the, uh, bed, uh, curve exceeds the midpoint.
So the slope is actually positive. So that's the reason why you see the positive come here.
And the below, uh, point, uh, the car, uh, Viale uh, graph showing like a negative.
Yeah. So typically our cooling channel, we designed like a 200 day, maybe overseas,
which means, like, our, uh, graph is a somewhere around, like, this point.
Okay. Uh, so.
Yeah. And as I said, so if we have a, like, a dispersion, I explain you about the dispersion data,
but the graph G can be describe about the dispersion curve.
Then uh, we can distribute like a, like a cooling, uh, into like a transfer city and the longitudinal.
Okay. All right. So how what is the dispersion.
So the this this is a simple picture. This is a like a diaper magnet.
B is like, uh, we have a, like a uniformly, uh, induce like a, uh, B field, like a direct into the, like a, uh, particle from the screen.
Okay. So if we send a B, there is a, like a, uh, raw, uh, force takes place, so the beam is actually bent and, uh, reach to the some specific point.
So this is like our LED curve corresponds to a different particle.
So we have like a specific, uh, momentum. Therefore, if we know about the B then we, we can estimate what is the, like our, uh, curvature.
So no, is, uh, uh, uh, curvature radius.
Okay. If we have a different momentum, then particle would actually reach a different location.
So in case, uh, like a lower momentum. No, I don't like a, uh, define as momentum.
This particle reaching to, uh, smaller, uh, bending radius.
So therefore reaching here and higher momentum.
So the, this particle reaching to, uh, right. I need it to be large, like a, uh, like a bending radius.
So this means if you have a, like a momentum spread in a beam, you actually translate the momentum, uh, the the beam, uh, as a function of the place.
So the momentum is converted into that momentum information converted into, like a transverse phase space.
Okay. So that is, ah, like a so-called the dispersion.
So the formula with a dispersion is a momentum times or DPI over the of your data over DPI.
Okay. So this is a like a simple form area.
So if I have like a uniform distribution uh so I can estimate like our uh, regular uh, bending radius as a function of this.
And if I have like a momentum spread. So I apply like a, this spread.
But, uh, q over B cube is a constant.
So I don't have a, I have a like a q b in a uniform, uh, more of like a field distribution.
So therefore cube is the constant. So therefore, um, I use like a this initial condition here should be equal to this.
And if you go through you get to actually, uh, gain this, uh, condition DP over the law should be the same as a P overall.
Okay. So if I use this condition here.
So the dispersion is actually the same as a regular, uh, like a bending radius.
Okay. For in the case of a uniform, uh, uniform magnetic field.
All right. Okay. Um, uh, okay.
So this is like a, uh, sidenote, um, so as you, uh, learned yesterday,
so the better if you have a better function and if you have, uh, emitters, you can estimate, uh, like a, uh, beam spot size.
So now if you have a dispersion, dispersion could also contribute to, uh, the beam, uh, this distribution.
Right. So to evaluate the like, uh, take into account, uh, like a dispersion e to the spot size, you should have, like a different, uh, form here.
Uh, if you don't have a dispersion. So the sigma is a square root of beta times, uh, epsilon.
But if you have a dispersion, so you have an additional component. Okay.
All right. So, um.
Again. So back to that. I like this picture. So I show that like a difference particle.
Now I put there, uh, where Jeff is over at the end, over there.
Uh, dipole magnet. So then this particle, uh, goes through, uh, which I was over, uh, like a,
the distance, like, uh, here and uh, so I think, ah, um, I don't see the, the picture.
Well, but I think it's showing like, uh, out of our, and our, uh, omega,
like a geometric factor of the, uh, to describe our, uh, um, which I was over.
Right. So if I have, like, a lower momentum particle now.
Though a momentum particle is. You can see that there are like a smaller bending radius.
So therefore this particle has a specific location.
These two the wedge up is over. And uh, at this moment.
So the moment, uh, the particle goes through the wedge happens over there, typically shorter pass ranks than the death car.
Right. And thus the same happens if you I have like, ah, we have a like a higher momentum.
This momentum particle actually goes through the, the longer passage banks.
So this means uh, the output. So the uh, of course the other particle does some energy, but this particle has a more energy loss than that one.
And the blue one is less energy, uh, loss by comparing the red one.
So this maser, because we, uh, locate the like a the, the particle as a function with like a momentum.
Now we can control the, uh, record geometry, uh, the energy loss by changing a geometry over the observer.
So that is a, like, a, uh, way how we, like, apply this further to create a, like a, uh, no getting occluding.
All right. So, uh, the DXY again.
So this form here, and if we take into account the geometric factor G x, y can be described about by there like a, uh, demand job there.
The wage job is over. All right. So now we know a dispersion.
So the dispersion can contribute like, uh, translate from longitudinal phase space into the particle,
but, uh, dispersion could also changing a path length.
Right. So the path length is change that like, uh, the time of.
Right, the order of change. So, uh, to be taken into account like a the password is different.
We use the new parameter, which is so-called our, uh, compaction factor, which is here.
And again compaction factor can be described by the dispersion.
So this is like a correlation. So the compaction factor uh, is uh okay.
So I have a summary data. The conversion factor is the one parameter to describe a space.
And uh we also have to think about uh, like a okay, like a time of right.
And a, uh, the, the time of right can be describe about like a this parameter and this is called the, uh, phase sleep factor.
Okay. Don't worry. So I already I have to show you more like a, uh, naive picture.
So the what is a, uh, uh, slip factor means. Okay, so this is a, uh.
That's right. So this showing, uh, like a momentum bars as path length.
Okay. So you can imagine so that if so, the there are two possible like a channel Y is like our, uh, if the momentum is higher, Parsons gets shorter.
Okay. Some condition. So this means like a compaction factor showing like a negative slope.
Right. And the other way is, are, uh, uh, this is more like a normal way.
So the momentum is bigger than the, uh, like a password is longer.
So this is like a positive zero. So we always have like a two different type of a compaction factor, including region.
Now why is the like a negativity slope. And the other one is a positive drop okay.
Besides that. So the, uh, slip factor is like a, uh, the time of.
Right. So the time of right can be like a similar, like a, uh, conditions if the momentum is bigger.
Parsons I mean, uh, meaningfully, uh, sorry that the time of right gets shorter with some, like, a, uh, like a channel condition and, uh, other way.
So the positively, uh, increased. Okay, so this means, uh, if you design RF cavity.
So I didn't explain about, like, RF cavity, why we need RF cavity, including Jamil, because, uh,
if we just simply lose energy, then particle leaching to the zero kinetic energy, these, like, particles stay.
Right? So that's not useful.
We have to write a gain like a lost energy by using, uh, some, some technique out of cavity is one, uh, very standard technique.
But RF cavity has a like inside a wave in a cavity.
So therefore there is a some specific timing. We have to send the particle into the direct cavity.
When you design like a cooling channel you have to know, uh, what is.
Other face when the particle reach into the, uh, RF cavity that is there.
This picture showing that, uh, is, uh, how you design.
Okay. So you can imagine now so that if you have like a, uh, like a positive, uh,
phase factor means like a faster, uh, like higher momentum particle reach to the, uh, uh, RF cavity.
Faster. Right. So this means that this is like our time in our, uh, RF cavity versus, like, our, uh, electric field induced in a cavity.
So this right orange point, these are different particle.
So high momentum particle, these to their, uh, RF cavity out here means, uh, this particle is reaching, uh, earlier than that, uh, different particle.
So therefore, this, uh, particle gain less kinetic energy from RF cavity right back here.
And if you have a lower momentum particle which has a longer path.
So therefore it takes a longer time means, uh, arrival time of the such particle is, uh, somewhere around here.
So the kinetic energy easily gain more than the difference particle.
So that's a way how we like a making a cycle to, like a, uh, like a, uh, uh, design, like the kinetic energy for individual particles.
So if you have a negative, uh, slip factor that things are different because are now high momentum particle reaching slower,
uh, so therefore, uh, uh, particle is reaching here.
Right. And a higher momentum. I'm sorry.
Higher moment that vertigo reaching our slower. So therefore reaching here and this, uh, no momentum particle reaching faster.
So therefore reaching here. Okay. Makes sense.
I think so. Uh, okay. So that's the reason.
That's the way how we, uh, just, like, out of cavity, including Jamil.
Okay, so I go through the dialog with you in space.
Um, I see that the time time is consuming a lot, so the.
I go through very quickly, but you get you also calculated like a, like a launch you to obey the functions,
uh, which is contributing along to, you know, phase space evolution.
All right. So long as you have the function, uh, is, uh, depending upon, uh, like a V prime, which is, uh,
uh, gradient, RF gradient, high RF gradient, you have a smaller, uh, you know, a better function.
Therefore you can reach lower, uh, habitus, which is very similar striker, uh, transport, uh, uh, phase space.
All right. So, uh. Okay, so this is, uh, showing that I gave it a separation.
Uh, uh, now, so the back to that, like a this separation car.
So this is like our, um, uh, uh, EBITA separation as a function of, like, a, uh, clearing part and the, uh, heating part.
But, you see, heating part is a constant. So therefore you can simple simplify like a formula like this, like a question times, uh, efficient.
Uh, plus like a constant term. This one is, uh, analytically solvable.
And this is like our, uh, equations and our the equilibrium, uh, evidence is the ratio between c1 over C2 or C2 over zero.
All right. So means like, uh, if a sheet is smaller, you have a better, uh, uh, equilibrium or she is bigger.
Again, you can get the, uh, lower equilibrium distance. So this is a kind of like a, uh, analytical calculation if I use a, like a liquid hydrogen.
All right. So this is a question to, uh, so there, uh, you can estimate that gave me a test car.
So I provided some initial conditions and how it has to be deduced, uh, as a function of, uh, the path length.
Uh, and for this calculation, uh, I ask you what is like our, uh, goal, uh, by by these conditions,
uh, using the those like, our, uh, table so that you can estimate, uh, those parameters.
All right. So finally, so I reach to their, uh, sorry, not the best, uh, beam optics.
This is a even more theoretical components.
I'm sorry. So that you feel more sleepy, but I try to go through very quickly.
Uh, but, uh, the point is, uh, um, there is a very nice paper, so which describe about the, like a transverse coupling.
So the x and y motion even couple.
But we could again like a um, uh, uh Hamiltonian very nicely.
And we can gain, uh, emitters. Uh, that is so-called uh, eigenvectors.
Okay. So uh, that they finish up with the eigenvectors.
So, uh, we have a phase space that's a x, y, p.
And uh, this is the like a z position, uh, spatial distribution on a Z.
And this is our, uh, momentum distribution y energy distribution.
So, uh, we also have to have, based on this, like a mechanical, uh, momentum, we can describe a canonical momentum, uh, uh, like a therapy.
And to gain a, like a mechanical, uh, canonical momentum, we should know what is like our, um, uh, like a beam optics you have.
So, for instance, like a P that's a, like a y example, uh, should be described by their, uh, vector potential, which is like x.
So the p p z same, so that you could have a like a y.
And uh, s so you can describe it like a canonical momentum.
So, uh, in the case of a solenoid, uh, nicely, we have a on the x and a Y.
So there's no, uh easy. So therefore you have a, we have a and a p y, uh, with a, some, like a, uh, vector potential.
Okay. So, uh, the first moment, which is just mean value, uh, so if you collect, uh, like a phase space, uh, over the particle, you can get like,
uh, x bar x bar y y y p y bar, and uh, uh, z bar and a, uh, therapy over the, uh, delta p of a p bar using this formula.
And you also have a second moment, which is usually called a canonical covariance.
I'm sorry, the covariance matrix, which like to describe it like this.
All right.
So if you know, uh, covariance matrix for the, uh, six by six, now we have like a separate three matrix, which is like uh, uh again six by six.
But the each component has like uh zero one minus one zero.
Okay. Why do we have like this uh, matrix I'll explain you later.
Okay. But these are like a separate three x matrix.
Okay. Then we can describe the eigen uh uh function and eigenvector.
So the uh, sorry being there, uh, these equations and the uh, omega is uh, uh, the, uh,
the, uh, the multiplication between, uh, separately X and our, uh, covariance matrix, but.
Burst. All right then. So this right down there corresponds to their eigenvector eigenvalue.
Okay. So this eigenvalue corresponds to them very mathematically right.
But but this is like a where described in a paper which I don't cover for today because that's like I need another two hours to explain.
But I don't think you wanted to do that. But you can, you can.
That paper is very well described so that you can definitely extract by yourself.
If not, just just grab me so I can explain by two hours.
All right. So, uh, so, uh, because we saw that, uh, this equation means you could also have like eigenvector.
So the eigenvector actually corresponds to like a, very like a certain phase space.
All right. So that's like exactly. So this uh, like a vector potential could a couple to like our, um, uh, like a simple symplectic condition.
This actually is the same as, like a, like a canonical condition.
So the if you have, if you, you know, like a, uh, deviation of the x,
which corresponds to like a if you have a Hamiltonian so that the you can describe it like an x prime as a function of our deviation of uh,
Hamiltonian by the the right. So this question, if you combine together this question corresponds to this.
So this why the coupling of the separately.
These are like correlation of the the canonical conditions.
All right. And the if you use like a uh separate uh the separately you can describe like our phase space, like a, uh, canonical condition.
I mean, yeah. Hamiltonian condition. Am I clear?
All right. So. Okay, so if you agree with me, then we extract omegalul.
Omegalul V omega five five, just like our, uh, each, uh, like our, uh, hyperspace, uh,
components so that we have, like, a three components, which is similar as, like x, y, z.
Right.
So, uh, if that's the case, so that we can extract the beta function, uh, so which corresponds to like a, uh, this formula M is like our, uh, index.
So if you put the index or the sigma Wawa of our, uh, epsilon one, then that's corresponds to the beta function.
Okay. And the alpha and a gamma. Okay.
Again, I expect that you understand about their, uh, twist parameters.
If you not, I can explain it in the first one.
Should there be a square root somewhere or a square somewhere? Uh, but size, when you say x, y, z, uh, analog, is that is that square?
So that's a good question. Um. The answer?
Probably not, but I don't know why.
Okay, I. I look, take a look, but that's a good point.
Um. Yeah.
So. I think you're right.
So the vector potential. So the. Yeah. So the vector potential is the square root of that.
Yes I think that's a square yes I agree. Yeah.
So those should be uh so uh yeah this should be square.
Yeah. Right. Thank you. Uh, I think the same happens this one and and this one is from just like a conventional, like a, uh, two parameters.
All right. The dispersion could also be extract, uh, from the, uh, vector potential.
And, uh, again, I don't go through the detail, but the.
So if you want to know, I can explain, uh, how we extract why we have a, like, a disparity like this condition.
Uh, that's it, like a very theoretical, very like a pure theoretical path.
But there we can also extract very easily about returns, uh, from, um, covariance matrix that's at like a, uh, sometimes we call that it does.
Uh, so uh, this method is much simple.
So we still have like a covariance, uh, canonical conditions, but also, you know, the canonical condition then the methods is described like this.
Okay. Um, so carrier of this, uh, calculation is we neglect the coupling, uh, between like x and Y, but most like a recruiting channel.
We design is actually, uh, so-called the like cosine flip the sorry.
In case. So this case, uh, canonical, uh, angular momentum is canceled out.
So therefore, uh, most likely like a coupling with time x pi or y component is almost zero.
So this method is very naive and very approximate.
But surprisingly the result is very similar.
Is that like our Eigen uh, eigen functions? Okay.
So you can use, uh, for the a just left calculation.
You can use these conditions. All right.
Uh, so the map and I see, uh, folks actually using our, uh, like a instead of, like an individual city by, uh, like a city, different component.
They combine like a, the, like a 4x4 matrix for the transverse, uh, components and a,
uh, using a, like a, uh, determinant of this 4x4 to extract the evidence.
That is, of course, uh, very, uh, accurate so that you can use this method as well.
All right. Uh, so the Hamiltonian, uh, in the general case, uh, again, so that you can,
uh, find it like this, like a general Hamiltonian, this contains everything.
Uh, so, for instance, if you have a like a, uh, straight sorry.
No, uh, most likely the Hamiltonian is like, uh, like this, so that, uh, nxpi.
Uh, and the x term x squared, um, y p x pick p y.
So those are like, uh, sometimes they call people call like a quadratic formula.
And this Y is a more general, uh, if you have a like a tilt it the solenoid is tilt.
So therefore the solenoid induce more like higher order components.
So the higher order components can be, uh, included like a capital K or small K or capital R.
And if you have like a skew component this can also include a like uh skew component as well.
So uh this is more general.
And again so if you go through there like an eigen eigenvalue calculation, you can extract it like a uh, eigen vector eigen, um, uh emitters.
And then you can extract that either, uh, very pure, um, like our um, eigen conditions.
Uh, and you can decouple. All right.
Okay. So I was technically it's about 20 minutes, but that will leave a little bit more time for questions.
Okay. Any questions so far? Sure.
You mentioned that the twist parameters, uh, this, uh, and you that you gotten from, like, the, uh, positional things is like,
is there something that we should think about, like physically about the parameters or just based on those from.
So I don't quite get what you're saying. Uh, so it looks like there was a problem.
The right size. Uh, is there something other physical?
Oh, um, yeah.
Twist parameters are, uh, other type of, like, a canonical condition.
So, uh, if you like a maker, um, like a, uh, Hamiltonian condition, you can formulate their.
With respect to that that this parameter. Okay.
So I can just think of them as like just other canonical variable. Right?
Okay. Hi, this is Rita.
Uh, I have a question about the cooling part, so let us know.
Yeah. My question is, uh. Uh, you said the observable material is liquid helium.
Oh. So, uh. Yeah, sure. So that's that.
It depends on our, um.
These equations.
Uh, so, um, if I recall cooling part and the heating part, you can calculate each of them based on like a you are, uh, like optics if.
Ah, Ryker, uh, this time is bigger than this, then you can still cool, no matter what the what type of material you have, you can still call.
So the here you could be. But if.
This time is bigger than this. Than you like.
You don't cool you when you heat up the face space, right?
Okay. Thank you. Anymore.
Okay. Oh. I could see, since we're in the cooling part, I wanted to ask.
Um, the the DCS being in the minimally ionizing section.
I mean, so obviously we don't want to cool down the ambulance to the point that they will all decay away.
But can you talk about why we don't choose to either make it go much on the right to be on the relatively relativistic rise,
or be slower to also have a higher DCS?
Um, because, you know, naively, I it would seems to me that that would be a better choice to have a cooled faster.
Right. So, uh, I'm sorry. So that's very good question.
Uh, saga also have a very similar question in a previous, uh, section, and I should prepare, like our DCS card.
Why would you choose, like, a 200 a day media box and, uh, and a you observatory.
Right. So that there is some balancing, uh, rigor, of course, like our higher momentum so that you have a less like,
uh, particle loss due to the decay or be more like a, uh, possible advantage.
But there is also disadvantage, for instance, like our feeder strength to hold the like, a higher momentum particle is stronger.
So therefore you have a stronger magnetic field. And, uh, energy loss at the, uh, VP point is very low.
So therefore the cooling performance is also poor. But if you go like opposite direction DX becomes big.
So therefore you have a bigger advantage. But you also have a more heating components.
So therefore you might reduce uh by,
by the like a let's talk about the stochastic process or like a uh uh uh Mayan decay more so you lose like a millions.
So 200 a day, maybe overseas maybe.
Ideal point, but who knows, like, uh, if you find a, like a different way, maybe you could have our.
You have, like, a difference. Momentum lower than, like a 200 maybe overseas.
More questions. All right, let's move on there.
Sorry again. So if you have a question. Uh, just grab me and I can explain.
I like a discussion, so don't worry. Um.
Okay, so. I finish by ten minutes.
Okay. So, um, so this is like our, um, example.
So the, the I demonstrate it there, like a very simple, like a, um, like a cooling scheme, but I don't put any absorber for this demonstration.
Uh, this is a, like, a layout. Uh, so the of the cooling channel, we have, like, a coil here, and the coil dimension,
like a is in a diameter, uh, in a radius or with a core piece a thickness.
It is a length. And these, uh, like a periodic structure.
Okay. So that each each d we have a, uh, the similar structure for if you learned about, like, uh,
the basic accelerator physics, uh, if you know about that, like a focusing point, uh, focal length.
So the, uh, magnet, you can describe what is the, like, uh, phase advance using this, uh, equations.
Then you can, uh, so in case of the solenoid.
So the, uh, focusing length is like I described like this formula.
So therefore, uh, you can describe what is like a phase advance, you know, like a cooling channel.
So this is like a very simple way. Unfortunately, this method doesn't work.
Okay. The reason is because the the core is not like a theme.
So the the performance of it is like an equation only applied when you have a very simple, uh, magnet.
So that's like a thin, dense approximation. We call in the case of the same length approximation.
So this one is of course valid. But in the case of the the uh cooling channel then coil length is uh finite.
So therefore we cannot use these. So what what's a required that instead we use is like a uh this equation.
So the this means we now look at the, um, the, uh, the, uh, the profile of the magnetic field.
Okay. So if you have like, our, uh, series over the coil, the magnetic field looks like a periodic structure.
So the simple mind. So the we use like a sinusoidal function.
Okay. So if we use this function into our, uh, this formula, now we have a new, uh, equation of motion.
So, uh, this equation cannot simply solve unfortunately.
So you have to apply um, so-called uh, so this like equation called like a massive equation to solve the massive equation.
Unfortunately, we have to have some like a better way to solve the equations.
Um, so that is a why with the difficulties, why we have, uh, like our, uh, solenoid, our best cooling channel.
So difficult. Yes. Um. Uh, I think it makes sense for why the.
So it's finite. But why doesn't it work for the folks?
For like 30s. Uh, so, uh, I think the point is okay.
I think that's a very good point. That's very, uh, intrinsic point.
So the, um, the solenoid channel, uh, for the cooling channel so that we have a periodic structure.
Right. So the phase out, obviously, in the sign of the channel is, uh, uh, to make us some more, better function.
We most likely, uh, make or design the cooling channel with, uh, like a pi phase out of the box.
So means each, like, our, uh, focusing point.
We have, like, a, uh, node. So that is like, uh, unusual.
So the conventional, like a beam optics we have, like, a, uh, folder structure means like a focusing d focusing, focusing d focusing.
But the like a the particle is not like a like a periodically like a moving like this, but the more like a naively like a much smoother.
Okay. So this case I think we can use that like a dense approximation.
But if we have like a such kind of like a, uh, very drastic, uh, moisture,
we cannot use there like a thin, dense because like, uh, coil gap is very, very narrow.
Is that makes sense? Yes. Thank you. All right. So, um.
Okay. Uh, okay, so the basic equations, um, we can solve, we assume we solve.
Okay. And then we get, like, a this, like a very strange, uh, strange, uh, like a band structure.
So this is showing, like a momentum versus, uh, uh, uh, the, uh, the phase advance.
Okay. So the phase advance, uh, or like a, uh, this, like our, um, uh, plus minus two blank is actually sort of like a stable condition.
Okay. Uh, that's like a stimulus. Like a cosine is a one plus that that's actually, uh, extract like a you have like a plus minus two.
So the we have a, like a similar structure here. So we see now like a plus or minus two, we have like a stable phase space condition.
And you see um, so there's a like a very strong, uh, stubborn structure.
So now by with this like a momentum range, we have very wide, like a, uh, stable momentum.
But within this range we have very narrow, like a stable condition.
Okay. So that's like a very, uh, specific character with the massive equations.
All right. So we have a very similar structure. Uh, if you have a, like a pure, uh, solenoid based channel.
So this, this one showing, like a beta function as a function of a momentum, um, you remember, so the previous slides around here,
we have a very large, like a phase, uh, stable phase space, which happens actually above this momentum range.
And we see this range we have again, like a stable conditions.
And we actually this is like a simulation, the simulation showing like a very similar structure as the like our, um, massive equations.
Right. So, uh, we have a like a for different type of cooling conditions wise.
Uh, like our the if the beta function is minimum out there.
Right. Uh, so this picture showing, uh, blue eyes are the clear and, uh, uh,
magenta is a RF cavity, and our, uh, gray one is our absorber and this solid line.
Is there a b-field? And that this red line is a better function.
So the type we have at the solenoids is non flip.
So the magnet is always positive. And type B similar to like a type A like a field strength is a very similar.
But now we locate that I gotta have clarity outside of like our uh coil and the put their, uh, absorber inside the coil.
Okay. So you can see the beta function is like our, uh, right to follow the magnetic field in this case.
And in this case, the face, the beta function is a pi offset, right.
The similar happens at C, but in this case a, uh, like a field.
So what I have a field is actually flipped one way, like a one code showing a positive otherwise a negative.
But the beta function is like our, uh, starts from our like our zero and up and down and type of we have again, the field is flipped,
but their uh, beta function now maximum at the end of the coil and the minimum and, uh, in the middle of the car.
Why do we have a this such a, like a for different conditions. The reason is because, um, that's depends on that.
Like a where you start. Okay. So this is like a layout of the, uh, uh, uh, coding channel.
So this is a part of the question. I don't think you have a right time to record.
Sorry, the record, this question. Sorry. So I actually.
So, uh, this is like a, um, like a flip sine solenoid.
And if you start, like, a the, uh, like a channel, uh, uh, calculation from here,
then you're like, a cooling condition is like this because you start from here, okay?
But if you channel starts from a middle with a, uh, coil, then your condition is like this.
Okay. So for types, we have, but they're actually the the right amount.
The configuration is only two. Okay.
And for each two conditions we have a different the better function configuration.
That is the reason why we have four different types.
But interestingly so that if you go through uh each like our types but the
better functional and achievable like according performance is very similar.
Okay. Uh, only differences are um, if you flip or non flip of course,
like a cooling performance is different and the transmission efficiency also different.
But that's only difference. So A or B or C or D it it's both identical.
Okay. So that's like our um I think I had over my my talk.
Okay. That's all. We'll do some questions.
