# Proton Driver and Beam Delivery for a MuC, Jeff Eldred

Recording in progress. A of this stuff.
You know, some of us kids are.
Like. Yeah. Like. Yeah.
I got. I'm sorry.
And then immediately after it was announced with its name that it was.
Yeah, I thought it was nice like that.
They don't need. So I don't know.
Okay. You.
To. We have another.
I mean, it's like. Yes.
And. It's very.
What? I think.
During lunch. I don't.
Like. I think.
Once again. Oh.
Um, yeah. Yeah.
I think that. I said.
Okay, everyone, um, it's 135, so people are still trickling back in from lunch, but I propose we get started so we stay on time.
Um, so we'll have Jeff's talk now, and then another break, and then Taylor for the afternoon session.
So take it away. Okay. Thank you so much.
Uh, so. Hello again. Um, so today I'm talking about, uh, the proton driver design.
And basically I got involved with this kind of an outgrowth of my work on the booster.
You know, we started thinking about, uh, replacing the Fermilab booster with, uh,
a future machine that would ensure reliability for the neutrino complex and that kind of thing.
Um, and then, uh, then this, uh, I'd say renewed interest in muon colliders came in and,
um, you know, I was I had been spending some time thinking about,
uh, the fundamental ideas of building high intensity proton rings and a lot of Fermilab specific parameters.
So, uh, that's basically how I got involved.
Um, but, um, so I'd like to point out that far in terms of precedent, um, I'd like to point out these existing machines.
You have, you know, Oak Ridge ACS and you have JC Park RCS and they're both, uh, multi class facilities.
Uh, about the GV scale. Um, they're both about 20 years old and I would say are well-designed, have distinguished records of service.
You know, we understand a little bit about what impacts what what issues that you run into and what impacts these machines.
Um, so it's a very strong building point. Um, and basically what we need for the proton driver is we need to be more like 2 to 4MW.
And uh, we need, uh, 5 to 12 GV so much higher energy.
You know, let's say almost factor of ten. And then the big change is, you know, these are microseconds long pulses.
So I think it's 750 nanoseconds for, for us and for instance and we need two nanoseconds.
So we need to go down by almost a factor of a thousand in the pulse length.
And uh, that energy boost is going to be one of the major things that helps us with it.
Um, but, uh, then how you get the rest of the factors, um, is kind of some interesting aspects of the proton driver design.
And then, uh, I'd really like to begin my talk with the with a disclaimer, which is if you are looking to be the hero of the, uh, the muon collider,
if you're looking to solve, you know, the areas where the greatest technical risk or improve have the greatest,
uh, time and performance or overall cost. Um, I would not look to the proton driver design.
I mean, we can argue of what our what area of the muon collider design has the, um, the greatest technical risk or the greatest R&D need?
Um, but I would say the proton driver is actually, um, not what anyone would pick.
I think it's probably the closest to the existing technology and operational experiences.
It doesn't mean it's trivial. It doesn't mean we've just done it before because I've I've explained, you know, these are, you know,
billion dollar plus machines and, uh, you know that we're talking about something that's ten acts in some cases.
Um, but, uh, why would I why what is interesting to me for the proton driver as a muon collider R&D topic?
Well, first, I think it fits as part of the whole.
And so we are still working towards a single self-consistent baseline scenario for what the proton driver is.
You know, from linac to accumulator ring to compressor ring to combiner to target.
Um, and then I would say you can almost flip this on its head and you can say, okay,
because the proton driver has solutions that off offload, you know, technical risk.
Really you should be looking for ways to take the other parts of the muon accelerator complex and offload that technical risk onto the proton driver.
So you want to, you know, let's say an attack surface where you're pushing the performances, uh,
performance limits of every part of the chain, you know, um, uh, consistently and looking for what are the most tractable problems.
And so if you can solve a muon problem on the proton driver side,
anytime you can do that, most likely you're doing something that's very cost effective.
Um, and then I think chronologically, you know, proton drivers first in the accelerator chain.
So if I'm building the giant hypothetical Gantt chart for the full muon collider at ten TV or whatever it ends up being,
um, I would say the proton driver is the first thing that the first major technical component you run into.
And so it needs the highest level of technical readiness. And you don't want to make a design choice for your proton driver that ten years later,
you regret because you thought about how now it's going to interact with the other pieces.
And then, uh, the last thing I think is really kind of interesting is, um, you know, maybe instead of building the muon collider as well,
one big thing, we are going to take big steps forward in terms of doing ATP staging.
So we're going to look for physics opportunities on the path towards a muon collider.
And um, almost all of those involve the proton driver in some way.
Um, so just, you know, one example of that, um, you know.
Not this past P5, but the P5. Before that, I was always struck by every muon.
Collider talk begins with some sort of neutrino factory. And this is part of the math that you would see.
Uh, so you'd build a proton driver of some sort.
Maybe it's the muon collider proton driver, or maybe it has slightly different parameters,
slightly reduced, but it's something that could become upgradable to the muon collider proton driver.
Then you build a separate muon ring program so that you, uh, the, the short version of this is you store muons in a ring,
and now you have a very mono energetic source of, uh, muons, all directed in the same right way.
And so when they decay, that's a very high quality neutrino beam. So you can do neutrino physics with us.
And, you know, uh, these are some, some parameters on new fact Max and new storm.
Not my chart, but, you know, my understanding of the basic physics case,
which is not great, but, you know, you want to improve your delta CP resolution.
And then beyond measuring oscillation parameters, you want to actually test the p, m and S framework itself.
So you want to have an independent unitarity test of the neutrino oscillation framework.
So then after doing that or while you're doing that uh, you can continue your muon collider, uh, construction.
Um, so I think there's some I think, uh, as a community,
we really ought to think a lot about what our best staging opportunities, what those look like.
And, uh, what are the opportunities along the way? Um, I'm not the person to do it.
Um, okay. So, um, so then how thinking about how it fits into the rest.
You know, proton driver, you've probably seen versions of this a couple times already.
Proton driver. Then that goes to protons to target you, capture you, uh, you uh, you manipulate those into the cooling channel.
Uh, then you accelerate those as fast as possible before you lose them.
And then you you actually do your collisions. And so here's one scenario for doing this at that Fermilab site.
And um, just what I want to point out is all inside here,
inside this orange ring where it says protons and cooling or even just this blue part where it says protons, that's the proton driver part.
So it's physically smaller and it's a lot more flexible in terms of the geometry,
because you have the whole space inside the Tevatron ring to figure out what size and shape you want your proton driver to be.
And then so as this the role this plays with the handshaking, the other parameters, you know,
you're going to choose the proton energy, the pulse intensity, the beam power, the spot size.
Um target the bunch length on target. And then those are all inputs into your muon production.
You know, the target and capturing, uh, the secondaries from that.
Um, and then I would say, uh, think about what kind of phase space information can you possibly pass from,
uh, a proton beam to a pion beam, then down to that, uh, um, muon beam, you know, the arrival time.
So when you hit the target, you get a mass of scattering and x prime, y prime, and of course,
a massive change in energy as range of momentum coming out from your, your, your, uh, particle soup.
And, uh, so your x prime, your y prime and your f phase advances are all just blown up.
But information about how big your spot size is, as well as especially how precise your timing in that is,
are some information that you can convey from the proton side from the muon side.
So this is why the more charge density you can get on those factors, especially on the proton side.
Uh, you know, the cooler muon beam you're going to start out with capturing.
And then therefore the less cooling you have to do or the higher luminosity you're going to get for the same amount of cooling.
Um, and then uh, thinking about also, you know, what does the muon ray and pulse repetition rate.
Uh, those are information that you would want, for instance, in the collider ring, um, which, uh,
at the end just cares about luminosity and wrap rate in terms of what it needs from the proton beam.
Um, so now when we say proton driver, we're actually talking about at least four different machines.
And so breaking that up, you have an H minus linac that goes up to some energy.
So uh, for Fermilab we always use HV because this is the energy we know.
But for certain scenarios for 5 or 10 GV, uh, typically, uh accumulator ring.
So you want to take those H minus particles and you're actually accumulate those amounts protons.
And uh there's a special role.
And I'm going to describe this how you make you choose what your initial distribution of your proton beam is in your accumulator ring,
by basically using your H minus as a paintbrush to create a custom distribution.
Then, uh, what is, uh, you know, I think the most technically important part of the proton driver is the compressor ring.
So that's where you get your two nanosecond punches. So that's where you do the bunch rotation process and then combiner.
So you may do this all as one two nanosecond punch.
Or you may say well that's too hard. So I'm going to make for two nanosecond batches.
And now I have four bunches. But I now need to converge them onto the target at the same time.
So that's the role of the combiner. Um, so just to talk about how some of those high level parameters come in here.
So, um, you know, Vladimir impressed upon you, you know, different things which degrade the beam quality as you're doing, uh, colliding.
But, um, just from that most fundamental factor, which is if you're doing a ten TV center of mass, uh, Collider, uh,
then Center Energy Collider, then it's going to be five TV beams, and the muon decay time is 100 milliseconds in the lab frame.
Um, so you look at just this factor, it goes, remember, it goes as intensity squared.
So you're going to have, uh, this decrease in luminosity.
So on the top chart this is what happens if I go to five hertz.
So I basically I'm losing all of my particles and then refreshing it.
Well if I'm uh integrating across that you would see that if I refreshed it more often,
let's say ten hertz or even 20Hz that I would get I would get better luminosity from doing that.
So, uh, ten hertz, certainly it's going to be more efficient.
Um, and then uh, 20Hz would be really having that, not using all of your, all of your muons,
but really making sure you're, you're filling your muon collider as much as possible very consistently.
However, if I just choose that as a knob and I'm increasing the rep rate of my proton driver, I'm also asking for more beam power.
So you have questions like can when I candle that, can the target handle that?
So if I say now I want to keep beam power fixed. And so going from 10Hz to 5Hz means I'm doubling the pulse intensity.
And from going from 10Hz to 20Hz means I'm having the pulse intensity.
Remember this luminosity is going to go and square.
So if I have one very intense pulse that's very good from the luminosity perspective.
So now look how the picture changes. If I'm at five hertz. Again same uh, beam power then I have a very high luminosity.
And so even, uh, even by the time you get to, let's say, 100 milliseconds, I'm doing pretty well.
Um, and, uh, if I do ten hertz, it's, uh, it's, uh, not quite as good, but it's better than 20Hz, which is.
Which is way worse than that. So which of these pictures should I trust?
Well, I don't think it's quite true that the target can take the same beam power, irrespective of rep rate.
At the same time, I think, uh, we would be, uh, remiss to to use 20Hz when we're not using all of the muons that, uh, that we're doing.
So I think we say like 5 to 20Hz. But, you know, I think ten hertz is probably a good a good range to give us a sense.
And this is very reasonable numbers from the proton driver side, the booster right now ramps at 15Hz in the future.
And we'll go with 20Hz. So Lenox are just pulsing at this kind of intensity.
Um, you know you could go higher. You could go lower as an as a 60Hz.
Um, so beam energy. Why why this energy range?
Well, I'll argue you need to go up a little bit, uh, for a couple of beam performance considerations, but, um, why not go all the way up to to 20?
Well, if you look at the muon yield per megawatt, uh, you know, it's kind of relatively flat in this region.
Um, but as you go to high, you start to get diminishing returns.
And so if I was at, you know, 20 GeV, then a four megawatt beam at 20 GV might be more like A2G,
two megawatt team in terms of how many muons are actually getting.
So fermilab's have it's nice because it's right in there and right in that sweet spot.
Um, you know, I the one caveat I'd put there is probably your muon yield per kilowatt is based
on certain assumptions about your target and your capture and all of that.
So if you revise that analysis, you might come up with a different energy range, that kind of thing.
Um, bunch length. I think I already pressed upon you that you want to reduce the 60 cooling requirements as much as possible.
Um, so basically below that, you kind of get very diminishing returns.
And, um, I wish I had this chart here.
I think Vladimir has it, but, you know, if I'm at over at ten nanoseconds or even 20 nanoseconds, um, you know, it's not actually ten times worse.
It's like more like a factor of two. Worse.
So if this were totally unachievable, uh, you wouldn't want to, but you could try to relax that requirement or, let's say,
initially start at five nanoseconds and work your way down to one nanosecond as you improve your luminosity of your program.
Something like that. Um, and, uh, but, you know, uh, remember luminosities and squared.
So if I have the proton yelled at the muon yield by two and again, I'm going down by four in luminosity.
Um, and, uh, so the overall beam power and pulse intensity, uh, my understanding is that,
uh, to get that final luminosity, these are the kinds of numbers that they're using.
So about 320 E12 protons.
Um, so, uh, to give you an, uh, that main injector does, uh, about, uh, uh, 5012 protons right now, uh, for example.
So these are, this are big beams and then, uh, yeah. So the compressor, this, uh, I.
I'll describe the performance of the compressor a little bit later,
but basically you want four different bunches to all go to the target at the same point.
And the strategy that's employed is each one takes its own bespoke path through this arc, and then they meet at the same place.
Okay. So now I think I can just go, um, in detail along this, this injection chain.
Um, so let's talk about what kind of pulses you get from the linac.
So the, uh, Fermilab two, uh, uses a CW linac.
And to achieve that, it has solid state amplifiers, whereas a lot of the other proton complex, uh,
amplifiers, uh, Proton Linux, uh, use questions and those are pulsed, so they don't run continuously.
They may run for a few milliseconds. Like I said, you know, maybe it's 60Hz, maybe it's, uh, ten hertz.
Um, and then if you look at the cost of the RF sources, um, it's much more affordable.
Um, and, uh, for the same pulse intensity and closer to what, let's say the muon collider needs to go pulsed power.
So I think, uh, we would want to go certainly for the high energy.
And who would want to go? Pulse power. Uh, so we actually did a design exercise at Fermilab about have Linac as a potential booster replacement.
So it wasn't yet with muon Collider in mind.
Um, but of course, if you go to the history of this HF Linac proposal, you will find me on Collider everywhere.
Um, so it begins with a pipe to Linac, and it increases the beam current from two milliamps to like five.
No amps and ten hertz, five milliamps, a two millisecond pulse from the strong eight GB.
I gets you a megawatt, so pretty close. Um, and, uh, we try to use, you know, demonstrate technology as much as possible.
So a 1.3GHz ILC style RF cavity, LCL style cryo module, the axial style strands.
And there's modeled on you know, those are 1.5 milliseconds, but some experimental data that says they may be able to go to two milliseconds.
So, you know, very conservative assumptions, no technology.
Um, and to get to the four megawatts, you just have to increase the current and you have to say, okay, now I want to do this with, uh, 25 milliamps.
Now, the that pipe to front end was built for low current CW operation.
So now you could do this as an upgrade, but now you're far from, I would say the original design choices for pipe two.
So if I had my druthers I'd say let pick two serve two milliamp CW users at the GV scale,
build a unique experimental program that takes advantage of that,
and then you would build a new H minus injector if you knew where you going with 25 milliamps?
Um, but, uh, this story about the five milliamps shows that you can get your foot in the door.
You know, you could build a megawatt proton driver, start putting protons on target,
really learn about your capture your target production and start doing some physics program,
you know, and then you can imagine retrofitting and upgrading from there.
Again, I can't help but think about the staging, but it's, uh, interesting to think about what would happen, um, in what sequence in reality.
Okay, so a very important topic that, um, hasn't come up yet, um,
from our lectures yesterday is why have I said h minus linac when I'm doing a proton beam?
And this is why. So h minus is a proton with two electrons attached to it.
So if I take this proton with two electrons attached to this h minus and pass it through a foil, typically we do a carbon foil.
Then what may happen is the electrons get left behind.
So they're pretty much dragged through the foil and they're left behind.
So you have an H minus go into the foil a proton come out of the foil.
So this is called uh charge exchange injection.
Or sometimes people think this is this is a little bit of a misnomer. So you could call it a foil stripping injection.
Um, so this is what, uh, you know, S and J Park, Fermilab high intensity proton accelerators around the world.
Do we have a lot of operational experience with how this works?
And what's so great about it is it lets you amplify your, your, your current many times over.
So I take an H minus and I a proton and I bend them through the same magnet and I put them on the same trajectory on the foil.
So I have these two different trajectories proton and h minus.
They converge on the foil. Then they go through the foil. And now they're both protons and they're now overlapping in phase space.
So I'm cheating Louisville's theorem because I'm changing the particle species from H minus to protons.
Um, and that's that's the trick here. So that lets you concentrate, uh, you know, hundreds to thousands of times over the current.
So you just keep wrapping around continuously injecting your H minus beam, adding it to the circulating proton beam.
And this is a very effective way to put in a lot of charge. And this is why the lowest energy ring, uh,
a particle accelerator complex is typically where you're going to experience the most extreme
space charge forces because you took advantage of this concentration and now it's in a ring.
So you've got to keep it stable across many revolutions. But yet you haven't accelerated it at all yet, so you don't have it.
They take advantage of the fact that you're going to be suppressed by one over gamma.
So, uh, there's a lot of technical challenges that arise from foil stripping, injection and a lot of different choices that you get to make.
Um, so one thing to think about is this, as you have, um, let's see if I can.
So if the center of my proton beam orbit is here and I'm injecting from the linac here, I'm deliberately injecting off axis.
So what's going to happen is the injected beam is going to do a beta tron oscillation around that orbit.
So I'm starting it with some amplitude of oscillation. And it's going to fill out that phase space.
And so that beam that I injected here is going to explore this whole blue area there, which is going to reduce the likelihood that the, uh,
proton that I have passing through the foil is going to then encounter the foil,
get some reducing the number of interactions between the circulating proton beam and the foil.
Because as you can imagine, the proton scatter off that degrades the foil causes problems for both the proton beam and the foil.
I'm also choosing some sort of trajectory I can move my orbit, let's say in a half circle around it,
and I can get, you know, a fully I can paint different parts of the 4D transverse phase space.
Um, typically your linac beam is much smaller,
and so it's basically a pencil beam compared to the size of the beam admittance that you're painting into, which is going to be much larger.
So you get to choose what your initial beam distribution is.
And then you have the challenge of keeping that stable through whatever space charge passes you've had.
So a typical profile might be like this relatively flat in the center.
You don't want to have too much peak charge, but then you have the foil edge.
So it's going to fall off. And then you have some part that you can't get rid of.
This is just, you know, this may be the tails of the linac or this may be, you know, the natural,
uh, halo formation that happens from having a, a real amount of charge interacting with itself.
So it's hard to make a peak charge, and it's hard to make a sharp edge.
So you end up with something like this. I sometimes call these flans because, you know.
Yeah, you see it. Um, longitudinally.
Um, you're also doing something where I'm injecting into the center of the bucket.
But again, I don't want to pile up all my charge, so I want to spread out my charge.
So I want to have it not just in the center of the bucket, but I also don't want to have particles leaking out.
So it's this balance. And so you paint over the course of this bucket.
This is a diagram from, from Jay Park in which, uh, I had this yesterday actually,
where you see, they've actually flattened out the bucket and that reduces the peak charge.
Um, so these are all these interesting choices that, um, you get to make when you populate into the accumulator ring.
Uh, just want to bring some, some, some theory into it.
What do you expect to happen? Um, so if I think about painting anywhere in x, x prime y and y prime, um,
then one of the things that you would have at, let's say, if I could, right.
Concert surfaces of constant j accent, j y uh, let's say there are approximately separable degrees of freedom.
Let's say they're mostly decoupled, horizontal and vertical. Um, well, you may have some non-linearity, if not from your ring, uh, lattice.
You might have from from space charge itself. So then you get face mixing.
You have a change in your betterthan oscillation with amplitude.
So if you had these two particles that were ejected at the same phase, they're now going to dilute.
So the surfaces of constant action you could say your Jackson, your j y you're going to populate those full surfaces.
Then most likely you cannot fully separate your two transverse degrees of freedom.
You may have some nonlinear coupling effects which cause an admittance exchange effect
for your horizontal admittance blades into your vertical and into your vertical,
and it bleeds into your horizontal limits. So on a slightly longer time scale, you would have an admittance exchange between those,
and you wouldn't have so much a, uh, constant action X and Y, but let's say a surface of constant H.
So your equilibrium distributions probably look like some, some function of H.
Uh, of course. Uh, this all depends on what time scale you have.
Often your face space painting is it's faster than some of these processes.
And, uh, you know, in the weak space charge limit, you can write down the single particle Hamiltonian,
consider all this space charge as a perturbation. And you can, you know, try to try to find something that's in equilibrium.
But in general, uh, this is this is very expensive. Uh, this is very complicated, uh, to do 100% self-consistent beam distribution.
You know, you're solving of last half equation. You have to decide whether the beam modes are stable.
You're not just passing through a continuous focusing channel, constantly changing the focusing conditions.
As you squeeze down, it pushes itself harder. And then, you know, so this is a it's a complicated thing.
Um, you know, there's one special case which is shown to be self-consistent in.
Theory. But then, um, actually, it's very fragile because that's what happens if you have a perfectly uniform charge with a perfectly sharp edge.
As you can imagine, as soon as you have one particle outside of that sharp edge, you start to tool around the assumptions of the queue distribution.
Uh, so just showing you distributions in H. So a Gaussian distribution will look like that in the top.
Uh kV distribution would be putting all of your charges at the same H.
And just hoping it stays there. And then water bag would be some, some uniform painting up into some limit.
And you say I don't want any particles outside here. I want to keep all my particles behaved within some range.
And uh, so, you know, something like one of these is what you may end up with.
A good distribution is sometimes called, uh, like a fuzzy kV or like a hollow beam.
So that's basically you put a lot of your particles that some action as far out from the center as possible,
but not so far out that, you know, you're losing particles. So you're kind of setting the scale for your beam.
This is the kind of things that we think about. Um, so, uh, now I started saying, okay, fuel injection.
It's been used everywhere, but here are some challenges with fuel injection.
So I'm having a very high energy beam, and I'm bending this to get into the ring.
So as soon as I bend it I may have stripping from that magnetic field and the higher energy of the beam, the gentler I have to bend it to get in.
And, um, so you don't want early h minus stripping.
So then this has to be a very long region. So for HV it has to be like 30, 40m.
And you're talking about a 300 meter ring or something. So this is a significant fraction of your circumference just injection.
And you're only allowed to do this in there. You know you it takes over your optics.
Then what happens for the particles that are not fully stripped. The h minus and h naught.
Uh, are those just going to crash in your ring?
Well, ideally you would like to have them on a separate trajectory where they're they're safely extracted.
That's the way I, Jay Park, do. Uh, so they're still lost.
They're still not contributing to the physics, but they're at least not creating an activation region right in your injection.
So you pull them out, you send them to a dedicated absorber, and they're away from everything you you care about.
The foil itself will heat up physically.
And, you know, somewhere around 2000 to 2300 K is where you start to get some rapid foil failure, 1600 K it starts to sublimate and starts to shed.
Uh, it's basically sputters off carbon because it's that hot. Um, so this is something that that's nice.
And Jay Park have a lot of experience with. I have worked on the material quality of making a performance foil that, um,
you know, so they're stretching it to its limits, but clearly there's a limit.
Um, and then I think one of the, the most fundamental challenges is actually the circulating proton beam scattering off the injection foil,
because if it interacts with the, uh, carbon foil, then it's going to accumulate a large range of x primes and y primes.
So it's very hard to take all of those scattering trajectories and put them all safely into an absorber.
And even in the best case, you're putting it to a piece of concrete in your injection region, but you still have activation from that.
So, um, this is actually one of the limiting, um, factors, for instance,
that SARS rather than losses around the ring from space charge, just the injection foil related issues.
Um, so uh, actually, uh, for, for J Park and s mass gv increasing energy, uh, helps.
In fact, I suggested that recently they increased it from 1 to 1.3.
But as you go higher and higher in energy, that stops being the case where it just helps you, um,
that you still have proton scattering and, uh, absorbing the particles, it's much higher because you're in HV proton.
It's just harder to contain and stop than, you know, a one GeV proton.
Um, okay. So how can we overcome this?
So there's really a question of if I want four megawatts for the accumulator ring, can I even use foil technology?
Well, fortunately people have been working on alternatives, which is use lasers.
Um, so this is, um, a popular laser injection scheme.
So you have your H minus come in. As I mentioned, if you have a sufficiently strong dipole, you know, pull off one of your electrons.
So you're going to end up with H naught. So they're not H not as neutral.
You can't do anything uh, electromagnetically to steer it.
What you can do is you can zap it with a laser, and that laser excites the electron to a higher orbital.
Then you pass through another magnet, and you pull that electron off and you're left with a proton.
So you didn't have to interact with a physical piece of matter. So that's the point.
Um, so there's a couple of other schemes. You can do it with all lasers and not.
No. Um, uh, no magnets, for instance.
You can pull off the first one from so you can do it between 1 and 3 lasers basically to a fault.
So there's a couple of variations.
You know, one issue you may have is you're stripping efficiency, maybe like 95% and you double the power of your laser.
You're still going from 95% to 97.5%.
So there's still going to be some fraction. But last a little bit, a fraction is going to be hard to strip completely.
So if you're talking about two megawatts and five and four megawatts and 5%, I mean it's 200kW of beam power is being directed to a dump.
So that's a serious dump. Um. I think, uh, I would think that could be used for some physics.
You know, you're directing 200kW to a dump. Maybe you want to do something with kaons or can decay at raster dark matter searches.
So I think there's an opportunity there. But it's, you know, it's a serious absorber.
And, um, you know, you have to direct it safely. So I think both Athens and Jay Park are pushing the laser stripping technology, and, you know,
it has, uh, you know, has the capability to help their operations as they are right now.
Um, and then this future benefit is just a nice add on.
In fact, they're doing something that's harder than what we have to ask to do in the future, because let me explain.
So as I talk about a proton or at, let's say, an h minus with a certain amount of kinetic energy,
um, and then I shine a laser from the opposite direction,
I get a Doppler boost so that the specific wavelength that I need to target is this 102 nanometer line.
But if you turn that kinetic energy into a gamma and you figure out, okay,
I want to now use a YAG laser at 1100 nanometers, well, I can do that if I get my H minus up to four GeV.
So they're trying to do this at 11.3 GV, where the the laser that they're using, um,
is going to be much higher frequency, and therefore higher frequency means harder to generate with power.
And then what's really killer is it's hard to get good optics to get, you know, good reflection on ultraviolet,
you know, um, and so, uh, you get to use more accessible laser technology, more accessible optics.
And so at four GB, you basically you get to choose what you want to do.
What is your favorite laser? I'm not a laser person, but um, for gives where the opportunities really expand.
Unfortunately that's the range we're looking at.
So, um, so yeah, we anticipate that this technology will be ready to rely on, um, I should mention where we are in the state of our.
So this 95% stripping efficiency has been demonstrated at essence, but for I think in like ten microseconds.
And we need, you know, milliseconds. So essentially, uh, part of the trick is to do not just more laser but to most of the laser passes through.
So if you can recycle with the appropriate optics that you get to reuse the same laser pulse, and that greatly amplifies the efficiency.
And this is why it goes to this. What frequency are you having to trap and put in a resonant cavity?
You also, uh, need the h minus time structure to match the laser structure.
So now you're recycling your laser pulses, but you need to keep them synchronized.
So it's not a trivial problem from laser perspective. But the optics community has solutions to this kind of thing.
So we're hopeful that we're on a timeline that, uh, will enable this to be something we can go to.
Um, okay. Uh, so now the accumulator ring and compressor ring.
So now we've gotten into the accumulator ring, we've used all our fancy h minus tricks.
And now, um. Oh, here, this is an interesting thing.
So, uh, typically we will have this diagram that you see in the left linac accumulator ring.
So ah for accumulator ring compressor ring C, r for compressor ring.
And then you go to target. Maybe you could combine combiner and then target.
However there's other schemes and say okay why do I have to have a separate ring that does accumulation and compression.
Maybe I can accumulate then take a B and compress.
Why not? And similarly you may ask. Well I'm just going to keep everything I have.
What if I accelerate I accumulate a lower energy. Let's say five GB, I accelerate up to ten GV.
Can I do my compression? Well, we're going to find out. Is there that space charge challenges are most acute in the compressor ring.
So actually you can accumulate at a lower energy and then do your compression.
And you can even imagine a a ring that does all three.
It accelerates and accumulates compresses. What can it do. Okay.
Um, so I think the question you want to say is can the compressor ring accumulate without losing its compression performance?
Can the accumulator, uh, accelerate without losing its accumulation performance?
For now, I think the technically is simplest thing to do is just keep them as separate function
rings and allow for the possibility that they may have conflicting requirements.
And each one gets to do its job by way down the road.
When we actually get to build these things, then I think it comes back onto the table and say, okay, can we save costs?
Can we reduce technical complexity? Uh, is there something to be gained here?
But I think just to keep the design freest, um, we assume they're all separate, but, um,
you'll see some talks where people, um, put them all together, and, uh, that's an active area of research.
Um, so last little space charter shift parameter. Um, our last parameter space charge tune shift.
Um, a couple different names. Um, so sometimes you will see this as always negative because that tune is always being pushed down.
On the other hand, sometimes it's just easier to omit the negative and just say, you know, stronger is a higher number.
Um, so I think Vladimir has already shown this, um, and.
Uh, including this diagram. So the idea is particles in the core of, let's say this is a Gaussian bunch.
Particles in your core are facing the most intense charge density.
So they are having difficulty as they do their Metatron oscillation passing the core.
And so they have the most change to their beta turn frequency was particles on the outside transit the car very rapidly.
And so essentially they're not seeing most of the charge.
And so they have closer to what you would call your turn, which is the term that you would have with no space charge effect.
So particles at the edges, the high amplitude, they have higher tunes.
And now you have some wet here.
And you have to keep this entire footprint stable at the same time when you're surrounded by resonances on every single side,
and it can get even a little bit more complicated because you think of now the longitudinal center of the box has the biggest footprint.
And then on the edges, the head and tail would have a smaller footprint.
Um, so you can make a diagram like this and you may have the goal of, you may say,
I'm going to run into some limit if I decide what my most problematic resonances are in my neighborhood and say,
I can't go beyond point two, then this becomes then an intense limit on your intensity.
How many particles can I put in? And then you will look for ways to relieve pressure from somewhere else.
So I was talking earlier about, you know, uh, reducing that peak charge transversely and longitudinally.
So that's going to go into this branching factor and it's going to go into this form factor.
You can block the transverse admittance. But of course you're reducing your beam quality when you do that.
So you have um this is actually an interesting point, which is why not just from the linac point,
take all my h minus charges and pile them at the same point.
Why not do that instead of doing all this fancy painting?
The reason why is you would have an unsustainably high space charge, uh, piling all that, that charge, that charge density wouldn't be stable.
So what is it going to do? It's going to expand. As this expands, it will reduce the charge density and may settle into something that's stable.
But this is a very uncontrolled process. And you're going to end up with something very messy with a lot of halo.
So if you know that your equilibrium admittance is higher than what you're injecting,
why not inject the distribution you're aiming for and make something more stable and sustainable and cleaner?
So that's part of the idea of phase space painting, which is choosing your, let's say,
your minimum sustainable admittance or your your maximum admittance without losing anything in the aperture.
This is the relativistic factor, as I was saying, beta gamma squared.
So beta is pretty high. So just think about it. Going with the square of the energy uh, number of particles uh transfer some bunching factor.
Oh yeah. Here I think I talked about these in detail. Okay. So now just some more definitions.
So I mentioned form factor. Uh so a form factor for kV beam would be totally flat.
So that's one. But for a Gaussian beam it's it's one half.
So I basically you're talking about the ratio between here that charge in the center for a uniform beam versus some real distribution.
So you want to avoid something peaky. And then the bunching factor that is the charge the peak charge versus the average charge.
So again you have the same concept of I have some distribution within my bucket.
Let's say I have a 18 nanosecond bucket and I have some uh, our mass of two nanoseconds.
And I'm most of my charge is going to be right in the center.
And so the ratio between if I had a perfectly uniform across that bucket and how much charge I have piled up,
that's going to be essentially enhancement. And you have the same thing for if I have, uh, 100 RF buckets, I'm only using, uh,
six of them then now I have an issue where I'm only using 6% of my whole rank.
So I'm piling all that charge into an error area. So you can see already the tension for muon Collider.
We want to put all our charge at the same place at the same time.
For reducing the space charge parameter, we want to spread everything out as much as possible.
Um, yes. So I'm saying we're doing a factor of a thousand on bunch length, but we are getting a factor of ten squared, so 100 from energy.
So now you have a factor of ten left. So you can increase admittance.
You can push through the nearby resonances and you know say okay instead of doing point two maybe I'm going to do 0.6.
Um, and then another thing that's a little bit subtle is it's kind of hidden in this bunching factor.
Uh, is a more compact accumulator ring would also give you a better performance.
So if I go from a 600 meter ring to 300 meter ring, then I can put in more charge per unit length, actually.
Um, so now how do I go for a more compact ring? Well, you might think, well, I want to use superconducting magnets for my dipole.
So I have really tight bending, really tight focusing, um, to make everything compact.
However, now I'm, I'm, uh, saying that if I lose particles, I could quench.
So now I have to control where my losses are much careful and I have much more carefully.
And I have to have much more strength loss requirements on here. So what?
I'd rather be at point two and say I have to lose no particles 4.6 and say it's okay to lose some particles,
but now I have to deal with a more intense space charge force.
So it's a trade off where you should fit into this. Um, you know, if if I think about doing superconducting magnets,
I would do a very large aperture and I do a very nice collimation system, kind of very carefully collecting the losses in warm sections.
And so as long as you're willing to make, uh, not, uh, not just a superconducting magnet,
but a large superconducting magnet, you can employ this strategy.
Okay. Um, so, um, now one of my most favorite topics there snap a bunch rotation so called snap because I'm suddenly snapping up the voltage.
And I touched on this a little bit yesterday. But just to review, you know, on the chart on the left, I have some Hamiltonian against phi and delta.
So these curves are curves of constant h. And um so you can solve for, for phi in terms of delta and delta in terms of phi and uh,
the particles, because the phase space mixing and the other things I was talking about,
they want to follow these contours that I snap up the voltage and all of a sudden,
the particles that were the beam distribution, which was following the contours, is now mismatched to the contours.
Right now it's only occupying some angle. So the action angle if you want to put it that way.
And so these particles out of outermost phase is immediately gaining momentum.
And um, you also see that the um, the, the lowest phase and the highest momentum are taking like a shortcut to be rotated back in.
Um, so you imagine this ellipse matching to the circle, let's say, or two ellipses of different aspect ratios.
So then one quarter synchrotron period later, again, assuming you're in the center of the bucket,
that time will arrive for the same for all particles. Then you're standing upright and you have what was a long, uh, a low momentum spread beam.
It's now a low temporal spread beam.
And actually, to make the voltage different, as dramatic as possible, you want to get your beam, your initial beam as low momentum as possible.
So this is one of the things from the linac is you want a low momentum spread from the linac, and you don't want to do anything that ruins that.
In between that and when you do a bunch rotation.
Um, so now it can be shown and I made the homework problem on this, which is that it goes where the square root of the voltages.
If you were to do it at Berkeley, which I didn't do as a homework, but I did do, um,
it goes with one fourth and so that so that's why you, you want to specifically snap it up as soon as possible.
Um, and I mentioned this issue where you need all the particles to rotate at the same time.
So it would help to flatten the RF bucket and to linearize, you know, that that focusing force as much as possible up to the edges of the bucket.
Um, and I should also mention there's resonance schemes. So I talked about one jump up a voltage white pi over two.
Suppose I modulate the voltage at one half synchrotron period.
So it goes up, it goes down, it goes up and down. Each time I go through this, the, uh, bunch distorts itself in a more dramatic way.
So this is actually a valid way to do it.
Um, I'm not sure that it would be what we want for the muon collider case because we want such an extreme distortion.
And basically, if I think about modulating with increasingly higher amplitude and I think about that last modulation,
that last modulation is going to be like the snap bunch rotation, and it's going to be doing all the work.
Um, so I kind of think of it as preparing the beam distribution for the first part of it for that last snap.
And therefore, I wonder if you can get that same effect by either choosing your longitudinal distribution or,
um, changing distorting the shape of your RF bucket.
That's kind of speculation on my part. Um, so one of the things that I'm starting to look to is I have this extreme space charge.
And if I when I do that bunch rotation, let's say I'm doing a factor of ten bunch rotation.
I increase that space charge by a factor of ten. So now I have I've gone from something that's stable to something that might not be stable.
And so can I do that? How long can I sustain it at this unstable space charge turn shift parameter.
Where should I start? Where should I go? How should I do this bunch rotation differently?
Knowing that I'm going to be an extreme space charge environment?
A lot of accelerators that do extreme bunch compression, uh, don't do it in a charge dominated environment.
So you can do R&D on this. Um, so I, I propose something to do it at, uh, fast iota, uh, fast iota bench rotation experiment.
So you could call it fiber. I came up with that acronym myself, asked ChatGPT if it could come up with a better acronym.
It could not. It came up with a couple of good ones, but I like this one the best.
Okay. So, um, one of the primary purposes of Iota is space charge R&D.
So it's a good place to think to do this. And, uh, so it's already set up to do extreme space charge.
And you have these other special Iota tools, these elliptical magnets and these electron lens and other fun novel concepts that you can try to say,
well, can I pulse an electron lens to compensate, let's say the intense proton forces and, you know, get better performance.
Um, so, uh, the only problem.
Is fast. Iota is not set up from the RF perspective.
You need a high voltage, low frequency cavity. Um, so the proposal was to build a cavity and put it at the iota um, ring.
Um, so, uh, Ben Simons, who is, uh, PhD student I've been working with, has a poster on that for later in the week.
Uh, of course, uh, I described this proposal I'm most familiar with,
but there's other facilities where you can do intense space charge compression, R&D.
So RF mass, I think is a big one. I've heard people talk about doing it at ISIS.
You could try the Fermilab booster, except for it's running the HPP program.
Um, and then I think some of the, uh, the closest operational cases actually come from, uh, GSI.
Um, so that's where you have like a factor 12, factor 15 punch compression, not quite as charged dominated.
Um, so that be a way of approaching it from a different direction.
Uh, so Austin from Oak Ridge is going to be here later in the week for the muon Collider meeting.
So really, all of your questions that you have about what the bunch rotation status of that experiment is that Oak Ridge should,
should go to him is to briefly put it into context.
Uh, you know, they have they already have the RF.
So that's nice. They can start this experiment, versions of this experiment immediately.
And, um, their greatest advantage and disadvantage is that they have megawatt beams.
They have GV scale protons. They have a very successful, very active user facility generating no neutrons for people doing very exciting science.
And so, um, when we think about fast iota, I can lose particles because the energy is actually MeV.
And um, I can make changes to the lattice because the whole point of this is to do space charge R&D.
And um, I can, I can, uh, take operational time whenever I need it.
Whereas, um, you know, I think the Oak Ridge Experimental program has to be a lot more conservative for they need to lose fewer particles.
They need to work with what they got at the times that that beam is available.
And so I but I think if you go through all of that, then, uh,
you've gotten something that is really powerful from the argument of technical feasibility.
I mean, I just argue that the closest thing that we have to the proton driver for the muon collider is as some s.
And so now if you now add bench rotation at this megawatt facility and you show you can do it with low losses,
that would be incredibly convincing from a technical feasibility standpoint.
And so I think we're uh, fast Iota is complementary though is saying, okay, now I want to see what is the ultimate limit of these parameters.
I want to push beyond the state of the art.
I want to ask, can we use some novel crazy idea to actually get better performance than what we think we could?
How can we push on these parameters? I think they're really complementary programs.
I think they could both, uh, take place and have something to say or if either one moves forward, um,
that would be a great step forward for giving us, you know, confidence and understanding of this.
And then last thing that's kind of interesting is they are doing is they're under basic energy science.
So this would be an ATP application for a B.
S facility. So we welcome their participation in the ATP world.
Um, so now I'm going to steal some of Ben's thunder and show some, uh, simulation results for the fiber.
Um, so here is kind of showing what I was talking about.
So let's say if I look at this purple line, I'm over at 0.4 space charge change shift.
And then I have factor of two bunch compression I push up.
Now that's not fully going to point eight because if you look at the chart to the right I have some intense growth.
So I've squeezed it and I've I've took two steps forward and one step back.
Uh, whereas if I look at, let's say this green line here, which is only one milliamps, then I don't have very much imminent growth at all.
And, uh, but I'm at a lower part of this.
So this is a kind of very first preliminary test. What happens if you put the beam in and you squeeze it?
Um, and I think there is a lot to be gained for, I mean, I here I do have an example in which I have 0.7, you know, that's very extreme.
And that's the way we get away with that is the rotation occurs in patterns of microseconds.
So just like 20 revolutions. And I've just got to keep it stable for that long.
So when you think about the higher order resonances have a longer time scale.
And the lower order resonances have a shorter timescale for how quickly they make the beam unstable.
So I get to maybe say, neglect the resonances and and just run up against the half at the half integer resonance.
And then so I go from, you know, point three to point five. Um, and our experience in the booster, actually,
it's a very funny machine where it does briefly hit point six and then the beam admittance blows up and we accelerate the beam.
And a bunch of different things happen at once. So then and we have some losses, we have like 1% losses.
So we can briefly be at that period of time.
But the question is how can you control that circumstance. Slow down the instability long enough.
Once you're here, once you've got that short pulse, you don't want to store it anymore.
You just extract it. You send it to, um, the muon production target, and, uh, you're done with it.
Now, I was talking about the transverse, um, uh, effects, but there's actually a longitudinal effects.
And I think I alluded to this earlier as I bring particles closer together.
Um, they want to, uh, repel by.
Actually, this is, uh, below transition crossing effect.
Because if you think about about transition, I'm adding a momentum to the particle at the head,
and I'm adding and subtracting momentum from the particle at the tail, but that's going to change the path length.
So actually the particle in the head is now going to rise sooner.
So it's actually attractive. It's a space charged focusing force which is hard to get your head around.
But it's true. And we expect the cumulative ring to be in that regime where it's actually attractive.
Interestingly you have problems whether you're repelling or attracting.
And so this is a simple, uh, simulation, um, from 2001.
And at the top is, uh, simulation from 2025. What's exciting is we're all saying the same thing.
We're saying that you can if you have the fast, uh, space charge bunch rotation.
Um, you can kind of cheat space charge a little bit,
but that you have to deal with the longitudinal forces when you get to really small, um, uh, bunches.
And the reason why, um, so things paper shows the expression at the top, the second, the second expression is one I derived.
So they're equivalent. Um, but basically, uh, you have a one over sigma cubed.
So sigma being the um, the bunch length. So as I get the last part of the squeezing, I have a very intense longitudinal space charge force.
And you can actually see the deformation on the right.
This is um, um, Ben simulation of fast iota.
And you see that it starts to distort and probably you can't see it by eye, but actually the center of this starts to flatten out.
So the core, uh, basically you can't compress any more than this.
Um, and, uh, you know, uh, higher charge, the no go zone gets bigger.
So, uh, here, um, this shows bunch lengths being compressed.
Uh, and so a factor of two would be the ideal.
So actually here I'm getting the factor of two bunch compression,
but they're starting at a different point, uh, depending on, uh, the bunch, uh, the linac current.
And the reason why is because what's happened before this is the adiabatic capture process.
So I slowly bunching the the beam by raising the voltage.
And it turns out the space charge force affects the capture process.
So, uh, we so I think everyone doing the simulation sees this longitudinal space charge effect.
And it's one of the things that you've got to overcome. So you overcome the longitudinal effect.
And when what you win as a prize is, uh, the ability to confront the transverse effect.
So, um, actually, we think there is a solution to this longitudinal thing.
It's old received wisdom, which is you have these inductive inserts and these, uh, basically you have.
Is fair, right? Um, collars that you put around the ring.
And basically this changes the impedance environment that the beam interacts with.
And it goes the opposite direction of this. So you can compensate this whether it's attractive are repulsive.
Either way you're going to compensate it.
And uh but the question is like how do I have to how much impedance do I need if I spread these all around the ring,
is that really equivalent to that, or is it okay to just have a one location, you know, that kind of thing.
So I think there's some experimental work.
And actually this is kind of a new idea for us because we we are starting to appreciate how big this effect is.
So we think if we do this fast iota, maybe a fun thing to do is put these in ferrite collars everywhere and solve this problem.
Um, so now going back to the accelerator design, you know, what am I hoping to get out of these experiments?
Other than answering the question of how ambitious can I get with the space charge force and therefore, how many megawatts can I have?
Um, well, I think one of the interesting questions is in the compressor ring, should the phase slip factor be large or small?
Um, and uh, so the phase factor, um, something I briefly introduced yesterday, but is how much does for your beam being off momentum?
How much does that change the arrival time. So if you're phase factor is small it means your bunches are essentially frozen longitudinally.
They may vary in momentum, but they're going to arrive at the same time every single time I saw Uranus, they're not going to do the phase focusing.
They're not going to do the synchrotron rate rotation.
Or rather, the synchrotron frequency goes at the synchrotron period, goes to a very a very long time.
Whereas large phase slip factor means that I have a very robust synchrotron oscillation.
It's constantly mixing. And it means when I do the bunch rotation, that process happens fast.
Um, well, the advantages of the large phase factor is what I just said.
So extreme space charge occurs only very briefly.
And you go through that last part quickly and you can keep you have to keep that beam stable for less long, uh, for, for a shorter period of time.
Um, there's also mode coupling, uh, instabilities that you may have to worry about.
Uh, so the head causes a wake, which then interacts with the tail.
And if your head and tail are not exchanging positions, then the head keeps on constantly amplifying the position of the tail.
And you have a kind of a whip like effect where your the head is wagging the tail until it gets unstable.
So, uh, this is something that, uh, Vladimir briefly presented yesterday.
So it's, it's better from that perspective to have an exchange.
But why would you want small? One advantage of small is.
I've talked about jumping up the voltage.
So you're going to be limited by how much voltage you have, which may have to be limited by how much real estate you have.
Or remember, this is supposed to be a compact ring. And, um, so, uh, you want as much bunch compression as possible.
And so, uh, that means the biggest ratio between, you know, is in a factor two bunch of compression, a factor of ten, bunch of compression.
How much bunch of compression can I get? Depends on the voltage. If I want a factor of ten bunch of compression I need a ratio of voltages of 100.
I need 100 times more voltage to rotate than I did have to capture.
So it turns out having a small face factor really helps with this.
Um, basically, uh, it's that it's, uh, the, the voltage over Ada.
So for Mega Volts is going to go a lot further. And I saw this ring that at that, uh, fast snapping ring.
You can think of this as the voltage during repeated kicks.
Revolution after revolution. And the beam position is not changing very much.
Um, so now if I had to do more extreme bunch compression, then that actually reduces the, um, requirements on the Linac and accumulator ring.
So I could have something more like a filling out the ring uniformly and then pile all the charge really at the end
versus starting with something that's already compact and then just quickly putting it over that last instability.
So my conclusion and this is just my opinion, that's part of where I'm teaching, is to give you your chance to form your own opinions.
But I think we need to keep studying both. And I think the small Ada is kind of, in my mind, a baseline scenario.
And the question is, can I realize the gains of these larger factors?
Do they just work in simulation or do they also work in reality? And that's goes to the importance of these space storage R&D experiments.
And you know, if I can't hit the space charge R&D requirements, then I have to relax something.
I may have to have a larger beam transversely. I may only be able to do two megawatts.
Uh, you know, there's certain things.
So it does push up against the parameters that are going to have an effect on, on luminosity and everything else.
Okay. Um, so the last topic to go through is the combiner and the target.
So I said I would go through what this combiner is. Um, so the idea here is I'm going to take a literally 180 degree arc.
So how much length do I need to do that?
Well, I know if I have a 300 meter ring to go 360 degrees, I probably need 150m at least to go, you know, through a 180 degree arc.
And then I need one arc for each of the number of branches that I'm combining.
And then, um, essentially what I want is for the first bunch and the sequence is sort of matching, let's say four bunches around the ring.
So the first one is going to take the longest path, and the fourth one is going to take the shortest path.
And they're all going to meet right here. So the distance between the first and the last has to be basically that call that FC.
What fraction of the circumference is filled by the bunches. Um I have FC over two here, FC over two.
So they add up so that the path lengths become the same. So the total length would be given by this expression.
So if I choose modest numbers I'm going to fill up one quarter of the ring.
I'm going to use a 300 meter circumference. I'm going to use four bunches.
That's 675m of accelerator. Um, so now remember, uh, one error was impressed upon us.
RF is where all the costs were, but I'm still paying for magnets and I'm paying for tunnel.
Uh, you know, in order to do this. So it's not nothing. Uh, especially when you have to pay it several times over.
So if you ask, you know, now, if I wanted to do 20, you know, now I'm paying for a lot of magnets and I'm doing a lot of tunnel.
Um, so, uh, again, it may pencil out if you can lower the linac or accumulate a ring cost or improve overall performance.
Um, so, you know, uh, 10 to 20% of your, your muon collider cost is going to be in this proton driver.
So again, if you, if you do something that's expensive from the point of view of the proton driver,
it may be cheap from the perspective of the whole, you know, one collider.
Um, just to give you a sense and I share this cartoon quickly, so forgive me, but I think it tells the story.
So now I'm going, how do I tell which bunch which trajectory to go on?
Well, one way to do it would be to give it a kick based on time.
So the first punch I let pass, the second I kick and it goes upstairs.
Um, so now that, uh, they're on different trajectories and you have this special device called a Septa.
And so let's say you have no magnetic field and the bottom half of septa and a horizontal magnetic field in the top half, the sapped.
So something that would bend.
So that's the purpose of the scepter is to create two regions which have a very distinct magnetic field and a lot of saturation at this knife's edge.
And the center has a lot of magnetic field saturation, because you basically have to keep the magnetic field on one side or the other.
So you definitely don't want any particles to hit the septa, but you can cleanly separate the particles.
And now they're going to go on their different trajectories. And now what's going to happen on the other side.
Now they have the same arrival time right. Uh so now I'm going to have another step to where I bend them now towards each other.
But I can't do a kicker because if I, if I have this and I kick, they're both going to go together.
So best I can do is kind of merge them with a quadrupole.
So now they're now collinear. But you see what I'm drawing as I'm drawing levels there.
I'm saying you can't even though when you've now changed it. So they all arrive at the same time.
There's no way you can make them transversely the same the same location.
So you have to stack them in x, x prime in some manner so that they're taking up more space transversely.
So using the fact that you can't shake Louisville's theorem.
And imagine that I have a limit on my target for what's the biggest transverse means that I have.
What's the biggest spot size then? Um, if I have more bunches then each branch has to be narrower.
So I have to have a small. If I have, uh, four bunches, then each one has to have, uh, one fourth of the total size.
So that basically means the charge is going to go down by a factor four.
And the admittance is going to go down by factor four. So I'm actually going to have the same space charge turn shift in each of those four bunches.
Uh, so uh, what is the implication of using many bunches in a combiner?
One is the, uh, the downside is the technical complexity.
I have to find a way to add all these.
And I just talked about how I have to have multiple beam lines, but now I also have to add each one sequentially into this bundle.
Um, and inevitably there would be some emissions growth from the gaps basically between the bunches.
On the other hand, if I'm shrinking the admittance and putting these all in a line, I'm making smaller beams.
And that means my transverse aperture and my compressor ring and accumulate ring is smaller.
And that means now I get to save on management costs. So that's good.
Or I get to save on I have fewer losses because I was just mentioning this issue about, you know, you stand off from the beam,
the more space you can have between the edge of the beam and the aperture, the more the better you can call me.
So less space charge during the bunch compression process.
Uh, having for two nanosecond bunches is different from having one two nanosecond bunch at that last stage.
So that's what I'm talking about. Before that, they all have the same space charge.
But, um. The, uh, the linac being injected into a large azimuth of the accumulator ring.
Okay. So this is again talking about if I'm only filling one fourth of the ring, then I have to have all of my linac pulse up here in one quarter of.
So let's say it's a one microsecond ring. And I need to fill at 25 milliamps.
And I'm using a quarter of that one microsecond. Then I'm not actually doing 25 milliamps for a microsecond.
I'm doing 100 milliamps for 250 mil nanoseconds, and then I'm doing zero.
So that's harder to do from the Arc perspective. And it's going to be rougher on the accumulator ring.
So, uh, my conclusion is that more bunches can definitely help, but don't use any more than you have to to achieve your performance goals.
So we agree on what how to have a plan to get certain beam powers and certain intensities and certain things.
Then, uh, you want to avoid the technical complexity from these other parts.
Um, but this is another live parameter where we've talked about doing one bunch,
talked about doing four, factoring six, and in my opinion, the large buck bunch.
Option 24 is still on the table. Okay, so with that, I've come to the end.
And um, I'll let me make one more comment before we go to questions, which was I was realizing as I was putting this together that yesterday,
I really impressed upon you the complexity and the importance of lattice design.
And I've barely shown you any kind of beta function or face advanced anywhere.
So I've admitted this entire thing. And why have I done that?
Well, partly if you think about I'm doing the space charge tune shift space charge simulation for one part,
then a tune diagram, and then I will have the question. Okay.
The phenomena I'm encountering are specific to these particular resonances with these particular optics.
And uh, and then have the question, okay, if I super optimize this, how generalizable is that?
And what's generalizable is the things that you see over and over again and all the different simulations, which of course,
by definition don't depend on the lattice parameters, but um, it's very important to get it right and in stages.
So essentially you want to fix the large parameters, you want to get the general physics principles.
You want to think about injection and phase factor and that space charge tune spread that you're targeting and RF needs and all of that first.
Then you design a very specific lattice and you do a very specific simulation.
So it's a very important part of the process. Uh, but it's when things start to get real.
And that's at the very end, it's a very last thing that you do.
Um, so this is to avoid redoubling efforts of over studying a lattice, and then you make some important changes.
And now you can no longer have the same conclusions. So. Okay.
Thanks. Okay.
Yeah. Thank you very much. Stuff. Um. Questions? Um, this may be a very, um, basic question, so.
I'm sorry. Um, I think I understand how we're doing our bunching and then recombining of the bunches,
but I don't think I understand why we want to take this beam and then bunch it and then immediately combine those bunches.
I think the the basic answer is if I started with two nanoseconds at the beginning,
then I would not be able to keep that very long and the beam quality the beam emits would grow and I'd have a lower quality beam.
So they kind of the idea is to prepare it in stages and everything comes together quickly at the end.
Um, I think that would be that. Um, and that the other thing that I would say is the Linac pulse is naturally I said two milliseconds.
Right. So now I'm adapting to milliseconds into a microsecond.
So that's where the charge exchange injection comes in. But now I need to take a microsecond into a nanosecond.
And this is where the bench rotation comes in.
So um, essentially, let's say the natural sources of the beam that you have in the linac are not with all the pile,
the charge piled on top of each other.
And so you're the role of these machines is to adapt essentially what you have in your high energy linac to what you want on your target.
Thank you. Um, I have a really short question.
And then followed by a natural question.
The really short question is, I think in the when you were talking about the foil stripping in the, uh, charge injection, um, I as far as I know,
and this might be entirely wrong, but, um, when you shoot protons into a carbon foil,
the secondary electrons that come out of it should be on the both sides.
But are we saying because it's in the forward direction, the secondary electrons that come out are going to be more on the forward side?
Yeah. Uh, that's a good question. Yeah. So the electrons don't cease to exist.
And in fact, they have quite a lot of energy. Um, so, um, there may be you have all these transverse magnets.
And so as soon as the electrons encounter a magnet, they are so white that they are going to receive a lot of bending.
And even the actually, before you get to the magnet, the fringe fields of the magnets are already going to be pulling.
So, um, the electrons contribute to the heating.
And in fact, this is something that actually one of the, uh,
major foil failures that they had in SARS was not from the protons, it was from the electrons.
But for whatever reason, the magnetic field was such that all the electrons were hitting the exact same spot.
So, uh, as temperature, if you can direct those electrons to the right point, you can just whisk away that sheet.
The foil has to be in vacuum.
And, you know, basically you have black body cooling and that's it.
And so that's why part of why they accumulate so much.
But if you're hitting like a bracket or a beam pipe and you have some appropriate cooling,
you have to think about it, of course, but it's not the limiting factor.
Um, and then another question is, uh, I think you were talking about, um, the different architectures.
And I was wondering, given like you were discussing how we should evaluate, like, maybe having more bunches, less bunches.
How would that change if we combine the accumulation and the compression?
Would we, like, be more strict about how many bunches we can have?
Pretty much. Yeah. So I think that, um, so, uh, if I want, I have more bunches.
I need to have, uh, let's say if I have more bunches, then I don't need as much of an aggressive bunch compression factor.
So I'm gonna shrink by a factor of ten and not a factor of 20.
Uh, but if I have longer bunches, then I need a more aggressive branch compression factor.
So if I have either longer bunches or more bunches, then I'm using more of the ring.
And you can think of that as something that's alleviating the requirements of the, the linac.
But um, now, um, uh, so as far as combining the compressor ring, uh, versus the um, accumulator ring, I think that it is relatively separate.
Again, I probably the bottleneck is more in the compressor ring than the accumulator ring.
So essentially that's why I posed it as can they basically does the fact of accumulation bother the compressor ring or not.
If it affects it anything you say let's just do it separate.
But if it basically is along for the ride and you're doing all the magnets and you're doing all the bending and everything already,
you just need to have a certain distance that you've set aside for accumulation, then why not?
I guess it also goes to the face look factor. I made the argument for why you should have a higher or lower ETA for compressor ring.
We have all the same arguments also on the accumulator ring side, so some people say they should both be high, both below one high, one low.
So that also goes into whether it's the same ring.
Case can I ask the question if you don't have any hands rings. Um. All right.
All right. Um, if you could go to slide 17.
I think this talk was really interesting. Um, I don't know how much of a laser expert you are.
I was just kind of curious about the the limiting factors in the development of, like, a wider range of, uh, wavelengths.
Yeah. Um, so it has to do with the lasing technology.
And that's what these are named after. Um, and then you have several stages of amplification, compression, um, synchronization, all of that.
Um, those may work differently at different, uh, different frequencies, but, um, that and the one thing that I know is a reflective optics,
um, start to become available when you go from extreme ultraviolet to ultraviolet.
Um, so essentially going to these higher, uh, higher energy means you can do lower frequencies, which mean that, um, and in fact,
uh, for SARS, I forget what it is, but they actually use a lower frequency and then they have to do a tripling process.
So they have to basically step up the frequency so that you can show that the
laser technology they want to use is not the frequency that they have to use it.
So I don't know if that helps, but that's as much as I know. Thank you.
Okay. So, uh, my I was trying to at the beginning of your talk.
I was trying to, um. Imagine what going from an ATV proton driver to a 20 GB proton driver might do.
I mean, like, so what would the cost difference be for the proton driver?
But like, what would that how would that affect things you give us. Sure.
So I spent a long time talking about, um, the, uh, space charge forces and the, um, as part of the rotation process.
And what you get is, uh, you get to not worry about your space charge forces.
Uh, your circumference of your ring will go up.
Um, and some of the cost, you know, you could say the cost would roughly scale with energy.
So I'm talking about if we ran into a major issue with the, uh, space charge compression,
um, and just said it can't be done, we have to go to higher energy.
We'd rather pay our way out of this. And then the next thing I would turn, I would go to cost to you, and I'd say, listen, 16 GB is the best I can do.
Optimize for that. Tell me what you get. Tell me.
It's not too bad. Um, and I think that would be. That would be the way to do it.
Um, so cost so cost would go up and reliability would go up, uh, let's say,
until you get to the, um, until you get to that target side and then it becomes like,
just not a trivial question to say what, uh, what might be the best, uh, when you, we've got to talk about, like what?
It's not just per megawatt, but per muon yield is really the figure of merit.
Um, so that's that's part of it. But then would that mean that maybe the muon cooling could, uh, what would you need?
Less space or muon cooling? Um, fewer channels or something. Because you're, you're now you're starting with a higher energy muon perhaps added.
That was kind of a that's a good question. I think you're still targeting the same energy muons.
Right. So yeah that question answer repeatedly coming.
So um, so that there is a summer like our, um, there's no specific criteria.
So the why we have to like a select like a 200 DB or is there is some like a freedom.
But, uh, if we look at the balancing, like, are the cooling performance yield like a production yield?
Uh, like our cost, right. Cordiality over the right.
Uh, channel looks right at 200. DB is kind of like that either way.
But again, so I show the, like, our, uh, evolution map, like our transverse versus, like the longitudinal.
We have, like, a very efficient way to cool the beam.
If we have a way to like a transverse city core, like a straight line, I think, or we have a huge gain.
Definitely. So there is a some space, uh, to, um, do on the higher energy side, I should mention something else that's quite important, which is,
um, so the main thing you're doing by doing acceleration and the accumulator ring is you're trading ring cost for that cost.
And basically generally the linac is going to be the more expensive way to accelerate.
This is a recurring theme, but then you're going to add technical complexity on your RCS.
So I would say don't build a 20 GeV linac.
I would say, you know, you're going to stop at some energy and you're going to do the rest in your in your RCS.
But, um, you know, f five GV I just do the linac and there's it's probably debatable, you know,
at ten GV whether you want to give yourself a little boost from your RCS or not bother with it.
So yes, um, probably I did. I do not, sir.
Uh, quite well. So there, uh, according to the program, the, uh, the program, you energy, uh, if we increase the program, beam energy higher.
But their, um, beam powers did have to be like a constant.
Like a form of, uh, forming megawatt. This means the number of protons actually getting lower.
But if we have a higher kinetic energy of protons, maybe we could, like, increase that the the target length.
It's not simply like, uh, proportional. Definitely. We have a less amount of like a proton, uh, you know, uh, production.
But there are some like a, um, record recovery factor.
So the we can, we can develop. So like a, uh, as a gentleman, sort of, or up to, like, uh, which part is more crucial?
Like, if the proton beam is really like a 16, GV is a crucial, then we have to start from a 16 GB.
Yeah. Thank you. Any other questions?
So thanks Jeff. It was very interesting. I was trying to do some archeology.
Go back to project X designs for the proton driver.
I think it was, if I recall correctly, was uh, one, two three gv, cw Linac.
Yeah. But the plan was to make it somehow pulsed at some point to serve as the front end for the muon collider.
Can you remind me what was the plan? Do you do you recall what was the plan there, and how was how the evolution was planned in that case?
Yeah. Um, so my understanding is the kaon production threshold goes up really high.
Um, around 2.5, 2 to 3. Um,
and so if you knew that you wanted to build a kaon physics program that justified your
three GeV kW when back then this is kind of like I was saying earlier with happy staging,
if you can get something for going to three GeV and then use that as your starting point for the next step.
That makes sense. Whereas if you say, well, I'm going to save money and I'm going to go to pulsed as soon as possible,
I'm going to get a pulse that one GeV or something like that. Um, then um, you, you get what you pay last for that for the muon collider, uh, stage.
But you don't get this pit stop along the way. Um, that not the most recent Snowmass with.
There's no Aspen.
Before that, I heard, you know, you heard a lot about people being excited about the three GeV kaon physics program, and I don't hear much about it.
It may come back. Yeah. Yeah, it was cut.
Right. Exactly. But, uh, so I it is there's a really a consensus that it's a bad idea.
This is outside of my, um, this is my I don't know, you know, um, but if it comes back on,
then you're right, a launch, it comes back on where you want to go.
CW and this is kind of the same thing I was saying, which is like, don't turn the, uh, the, uh, one GV, uh, pulse either, if you have a happy user.
And so I think a low energy muon program, um, is something that people have talked about doing with one GB, CW.
So it's the same argument there. Okay. Can they maybe follow up on this really quickly?
Um, from the accelerator point of view, though, if you were, if you didn't have, um, the K on program, right?
You're saying for both the cost and simplicity of design point of view, you would just start with pulsed right away, right?
Is that a true statement? That's right. So if you think about what the, uh, muon collider, what the cumulative ring means, it needs pulsed.
And so as CW is essentially you're not using these extra cycles and um, you're paying more for it.
So when we did our we had CW go up to two GeV, we did a cost estimate and then pulse the rest of the way.
And the pulsed from 2 to 8 GV cost less than the CW from 1 to 2 GV.
So that gives you a sense, right? So you would not want to do CW all the way up.
Certainly. So at some point you're switching. Yeah. That's where you should park where the physics is basically.
Yeah. But the switching is really, uh, more of a physics question.
Where do you want to be in that sense? Yeah. For, for the users.
Okay. From the technical standpoint, you would just switch over as soon as possible.
In fact, you arguably would not have that CW to begin with if you didn't have other users.
So so there, um, we also actually discussed about like the Neutrino Factory, which doesn't require like a one on sake,
uh, time, like a structure so that we could have a, like a bunch structure.
Mhm. Uh, record that we can like, uh, make a continuum like, uh, neutrino.
So solenoid all focusing rather than horn focusing.
And then you would study that Trina was coming from. And what energy would that be. Uh, for the brother mean.
Yeah. The problem about the right one. Okay.
Yeah. So that's another thing as, uh, you know, uh, what our is the first user for an HIV proton driver.
And then what are the users at CW? GV scale linac program.
It, uh, since you are, you know, in a you have this, uh, playground to understand space charge.
Can you comment on which simulators show robust, uh, modeling, or do you know which simulators do you use to compare with your experiments?
And, uh, are they bespoke or are they sort of general purpose?
And you to the, uh, yes, I can tell you a lot about that.
So, um, different facilities tend to have different house codes,
and they typically don't offer technical arguments for why they have chosen so much as it's got a group that other people use it.
And you can go to someone for, for help. And you can say you understand the limitations and the features of the code.
Um, so, uh, uh, yes, yes.
Orbit. Um, uh uh, CERN uses um, this program called X suite, which is kind of built on Pi orbit, I think, which is a variation.
Uh, Fermilab had a house code. Uh, synergy or synergy.
Yeah. And the argument for that was it scaled really nice with supercomputing.
Um, but we were the only one who used it, and it did not have a very strong user base.
So Fermilab has started to move away from this, but we've not yet found a home.
And impact is used a lot, uh, in California and by our electron collaborators.
So we have not yet found a home. People have started to use the CERN X suite.
And the nice thing about it is it's, um, multi package code. So you can do space charge, but you can also do collective effects.
You can also do radiation effects. You can do electron cloud.
Vladimir briefly mentioned that. Um so um it's in flux for the muon collider.
I would say uh, the uh, um, a couple of features that you might want.
Some of the codes don't have this longitudinal, um, space charge force at all.
So that's one of the things that we discovered. So this is an important effect.
So it's got to be not just, uh, a 2D, but, uh, at least a two and a half D or a 3D code.
The other big thing is, um, uh, essentially, uh, the most accurate thing would be to take every single particle in simulated space charge forces,
um, and or at least do a large number of macro particles.
But how much do you get away with, uh, for doing, like, frozen or quasi frozen models?
Uh, traditionally you can do quasi frozen models, which are numerically so much faster on scenarios that you understand very well.
And so for us, doing things new for the first time and having a time varying system where you have a lot changing,
um, with a bunch rotation, I think you need a pick card.
So you need a 3D pick code or a two and a half to pick out which those ones that I just mentioned, uh, they all qualify as that.
Um, so I don't know if that really answered your question, but, um,
it's something that as a community, uh, we are constantly negotiating amongst ourselves.
Okay. So from your perspective at Fermilab, you know, you don't, uh, have a favorite yet?
I think X suite would be something I have not tried yet, but I think it would be really great.
Uh, Fermi people in the Fermilab recycler have started using X suite and really like it.
And I it would be nice if we use the same code as CERN.
Um, and I also think that, um, uh, I, you know, for whatever reason, I think it's because it's,
it's such an interesting playground is attracted different users from different facilities.
It's been benchmarked by like six different codes.
So it's actually kind of nice to be able to say, uh, the same story in five out of the six of these codes.
And therefore I found a bug in the last one.
Or I have, like increased confidence that these two different space charge algorithms are telling the same story.
Um, so that's just an I think that's just the nature of iota.
But, um, if I had to pick one, I think I would try to try to go, uh, Pi Orbit or X suite,
which are these just having more users and bigger community to talk to.
Cool. Um, there's only one that I was expecting to hear, but it didn't.
Is warp X is at warp X?
Yeah, I don't have much experience with that one, but I think that's another one that's, uh, popular out there for, um, electrons.
You know, I think it may have some. Is it true that has plasma?
Wakefield. Kind of. It has plasma capability. So, uh, you may you wouldn't need that for this, but, um, I don't know, um,
if it has the things that we do need, a lot of times the codes have features that we don't need.
I think that's a pretty rare. Uh, yes, that's another big thing.
It's not free. Uh. Okay.
Um, I think with that, let's thank Jeff again.
