# Collider Ring, Eliana Gianfelice-Wendt

Okay. So the content of my talk will be a recap of some accelerator physics.
Basic notion. I know that you had the lecture with, uh, Jeff Eldredge, but, uh,
repeated that you want and also is for completeness, so that, uh, the talk has a logic.
Um, so I will make an introduction in general to Collider Rings concept.
And, uh, then I will make a overview on which are the particular challenges for a new, um, collider.
And then I will show the design of a 3D v collider.
Uh, which we decided that Fermilab inside the uh, map, uh, project.
Um. Okay, so the building blocks of the, uh, of a, uh, ring, uh, accelerator are, of course, the dipole magnets, which are where the field,
uh, there is a magnetic field which is uniform if we which, uh, define the design trajectory of the particles,
um, then there are quadruples, uh, magnet the which are, uh, uh, aligning along with this design of the, uh,
trajectory and, uh, which, uh, they obtain the, the, uh, particles horizontally or vertically, depending on the position.
So they realize the transverse focusing of the, of the beam.
And then there are, uh, radiofrequency cavity, uh, where instead of the electric field, which is in the direction of the uh,
particle, uh, speed, which accelerate, uh, the particles and provide also a longitudinal for using the.
So this is just an example we have of the left side, there is a, uh, quadruple magnet, then a dipole magnet.
This is a nine, uh, cell, uh, superconducting cavity.
And this is a, uh, not a collider, but the smoldering oasis of Fermilab by Yoda in that I put the picture so that
you can see in practice all the elements that I was speaking about the dipole,
this is the blue block. And then, uh, we have the cavity address cavity in the quadruples.
So from this basic concept now of some formulas, um, it is, uh, convenient to describe the motion of the particles are not,
uh, using the laboratory system, but using a system which is move,
uh, together with the particle on the design orbit and to use instead of time the position along the trajectory,
uh, as a uh parameter and the linear approximation,
if you ignore the presence of solenoids of skew quadruples, which are quadruples which are tilted by a 45 degree,
uh, around the longitudinal axis, or in the absence of dipolar errors, and, uh, uh,
for a particle which is own energy, which means that the energy for which the dipole have been decided,
then the the equation of motion can be written in a symmetric way for the horizontal and vertical uh, plane.
And these are they have name Eel's equation. And uh, they have this uh uh form error where zeta is a x or epsilon.
And in a blundering uh uh, the the value of k is not the same or vertical.
This the horizontal one and the vertical one is this one.
And if you have also vertical bending so then you will have a curvature also on the term okay epsilon.
Um, by the way this uh equation of motion can be derived by an Estonian.
Okay. Um, instead of, uh, solving it directly from the particle, uh, coordinated equation of motion, we introduce a new,
uh, uh, variables by using a periodic solution of this equation, uh, for beta, which is this one.
And we define a new variable eta and p uh, which are related to the beta function by these two expression uh phi is called phase advance.
And the parameter q uh is chosen so that the integral of this integral over uh, the third one in the machine is two pi.
Now, uh, this, uh, this equation then taking with this new, uh uh, uh, coordinates, I take a very, uh, nice form.
It's just a simple harmonic oscillator for which we know the solution.
So we see that the parameter q represents the number of oscillation that the particle will do in the ring, uh, in one day.
Uh, in this called beta transition, um, this and V so are called DOS functions.
And these are a property of the ring. Um while a and v are probability of the particle and event.
So uh, of course on their uh, starting uh, condition. So we have decided to disentangle in this way something which would belong to the machine,
to something which is particular of the particular, uh, particle.
Okay. Um, so, uh, uh uh, this is the amplitude of oscillation is, of course, of course, is a constant,
and it's called the, uh, the square root of this quantity is called particle admittance.
And this is, of course, equals to the whole motion.
Uh, identity is easy to verify, uh, by using, uh, uh, the, the definition of, uh, x that I have, uh,
given before and the solution that I have given in the case of the oscillator that, uh, this equation.
This equation, uh, uh, represents an ellipse.
In which area? Is, uh, the amplitude squared.
Okay. In the end this is called this, uh, quantity is called also the particle limit on the R-squared.
It's a particle admittance. Uh, the shape of this, uh, ellipse, um, is the same for all particles in the same position of the ring,
because it's just the function of the, uh, beta alpha and gamma, which are, uh, function of the of the ring.
Uh, we can also instead define a beam statistical tensor to describe the whole beam, which is the average of these quantities.
And if you put the, uh, results that we found for Zeta and prime in this, uh, expression, you will find that,
that the importance is this, uh, one off of the average on the particle distribution of the amplitude squared.
Uh, the beam transverse size is this one is the sigma is the square root of a beat that, um,
the importance of the beam and the, the normalized admittance, uh, is obtained from, uh, from this, uh, uh,
statistical admittance, which is also called array n, is done by multiplying by gamma and beta relativistic,
uh, in this case, in this way you get something in quantity which is uh, constant, uh, with energy.
Uh, and this is, uh, this depends on the fact that the meter itself, uh,
decreases with the energy because of the particle get in, gain energy in the longitudinal direction through the RF cavities.
Why, uh, the, uh, momentum in the origin in the transverse momentum doesn't increase.
Okay. Another quantity that I would like to introduce because we will see the later.
Uh they are important is the dispersion is the factor that the particles which have a different energy from the design,
one will not have the same orbit, uh, that the, the particle for which it has been designed.
They say in the dipole they see a field which is not as if they have more energy.
They see a field which is not strong enough. So they will make a trajectory which is which has a less curvature.
Um, the zero order dispersion is then defined as a deviation with respect to the design orbit of a particle,
which is an offset the, uh, in momentum delta p over p equal one.
And therefore the solution to the uh motion is then described by the data from path,
which was the path which is the harmonic oscillator, plus the dispersion time,
the delta p of the biological, uh, that you are considering in a planning ring, uh, the horizontal, uh, bending, uh, there is no reason that bending.
So, uh, the in general, only the horizontal dispersion is different from zero, uh, the quadruples itself.
They do not the generate the dispersion but they modify it, um, in that if you have a quadrupole which has an offset, um,
or because of the orbit goes not in the center or because of the quadrupole itself is shifted, then the this act total is also a dipole.
Colborne. And then it also introduces some dispersion.
The particles, which then have a different energy than the designed one, if a different path length.
Um, and the important parameter is then, uh, uh, the momentum compaction, which would uh, describe the, this, uh, the, um,
the orbit change, the trajectory, uh, orbit, uh, length change for particle, which have, uh, offset the in the energy.
Uh, this momentum compaction factor, um, is a function of P, so you will have a first order like E zero,
but then you will have uh uh uh or higher order, which can become important.
Um, the and the important parameter for as we will see if I recall either is the length of the bunch,
which is uh, related to uh, alpha to this momentum compaction by this expression.
ETA in fact, is uh, uh, related to the momentum compaction is, uh, expression for a larger energy.
Uh, ETA is just equal to alpha P. And, um, this is not a strange because of this.
Uh, um, the particle, which has a different path length, will come before or after the,
uh, the right face with respect to the design particle in the cavity.
So, so this will be then, uh, a consequence for the length of the bunch.
Um, the another important concept in particular for, uh,
Collider is the low beta function at the interaction point is the chromaticity, which is the factor that, uh,
describes the fact that the, uh, particles which have a different energy than the design one will see also in the quadrupole field,
which is, uh, too strong or too weak.
So, um, for them, uh, and then, uh, this will make the, the beta function will be not the same for these particles.
And then there will be a beta beating, uh, which is due to the chromatic beta beating, which is due to the delta p over P.
And there is a tune shift, uh, with this is now the expression for a single quadrupole.
And, uh, now if you have the many quadruples, you have to sum all of them.
So the natural linear chromaticity from the whole machine is, uh, this parameter, which is,
uh, the integral of, uh, beta time, uh, the, the nominal, uh, strength of the variable.
So what we see from this expression, I want to point out is that the contribution to the chromaticity come from the, uh,
from this place in the machine where the, uh, where the quadrupole are stronger and where the beta function is larger.
Uh, and then the other things, um, for when we want to correct is that this chromatic beta oscillation of the,
uh, oscillate with the, uh, twice the better tune, as you can see from this expression here.
Um, the natural chromatic is negative.
Um, and this drives the daily instabilities, you know, uh, in or also the if they are large chromaticity, uh,
um, it can be that you have a no more stable optics for a particle, which is a of which is all for energy.
And also the chromaticity make that the particle with different energy that you have in the, in the field, in the, in the beam,
because you don't have all the particle levels, the same energy,
then you will have different dunes and can happen that they, uh, go, uh, or they can be on a resonance.
Uh, the resonance uh, is uh, for the transverse plays plane is, uh, described by this equation,
the Greeks and epsilon, the uh, better transducer is on the vertical.
And when this condition is satisfied, the you can, uh, if, uh, um, you can have a resonances, which again, um, uh, make the particle become unstable.
For this reason, you you need to correct the chromaticity.
And, uh, to do this, you need the something which is a quadrupole, which strength depends on the particle.
Uh, energy offset. Now, if you take the SX2 ball, which has this, uh, kind of field here, and you develop writing the x upsilon as the,
uh, uh, beta Compaq plus the dispersion part, then you get this expansion and you see the distance here.
The same form is a quadrupole, which depends on delta p over p.
So this is exactly what we want to have. But this x is also an unwanted effect because of the reason the term the dipole uh type term uh,
which is so called chromatic aberration which introduce also a um a perturbation of the dispersion.
So, uh, that, you know, the dispersion is not only the DS which are UV uh, zero or the dispersion,
but you did you have to add another term which depends on delta p will be um,
and then the terms instead the uh sexual polar terms themselves, they introduce a.
A so-called geometric operation, which may derive the third order resonance.
So that I say that I introduce, uh, just like before.
Uh, these are then there is a, uh, at least in first approximation,
you can use a proper phase advance between the sextuplets of the same strain so that you can overall,
you get the overall cancellation of this driving term. Uh, you never know.
In a linear machine, all, uh, amplitudes are stable.
We add before the expression for the harmonic oscillator.
Then this is always stable.
So the only way you can lose a particle is that the the selection amplitude is so larger that you lose it on the against the wall of the machine.
Uh, instead the if the the machine, we choose instead the nonlinear.
When you start putting size two both inside, not all particles are stable.
And uh, to find out, uh, which particle are stable and which not depend on their amplitude in their, uh, energy offset.
You need the, uh, particular code, which you compute the so-called dynamical aperture, um,
for minimizing the strength of this x bolt so that you don't have all this other effect that you don't want to wave,
then it's convenient to put them in a places where the dispersion is very large, and also to have the two beta function,
one larger than the other, so that you always correct only one of the two planes.
So the correction are orthogonal and they don't fight one each the against the other.
Okay. In a ring, uh, accelerator that is made of dipole quadrupole in the we saw some uh at a station.
But uh, apart this we need also to have some insertions, uh, because we need to inject in this machine.
We need to extract, uh, we have, uh, every cavities to accommodate and so on.
But the most important is that we are, uh, that way of insertion for collider for the experiments, uh, which are the crucial, uh,
parameters for a collider are the energy, uh, in the center of mass and the luminosity,
uh, the luminosity, which, um, uh, dictate which is the the rate of event,
the for a given uh, if on event given, uh, cross-section, uh, do the low orbit insertion then uh, recreated for the experiment, um, and the, uh,
so first the luminosity, uh, is given by this expression where n one and two are the particles per bunch in the two,
uh, in the two, uh, colliding beams. Uh, and B is the number of uh, bunches per, uh, per beam and uh, F is the revolution frequency.
Uh, on the denominator there is the cross-section, uh, this, uh, of the of the of the beams.
So I've said before that the Sigma star is at the interaction point, is then a beta star,
which is the beta at the interaction point generally is all it is customary to call it beta star.
Uh, that time the uh M6, uh, emissions.
And then there is this factor which is called hourglass uh factor,
which I will explain later what it is, which in general is a smaller or equal maximum to one.
So to maximize the luminosity, first thing you can do is to put all, uh, your, uh,
you try to put as much as particle possible particles in single bunches, not increases the number of bunches, but the bunch of population.
And then you can uh, uh, minimize admittance because here you minimize within the sigma, uh, which means that in particular, uh,
for uh, for other means that you have to preserve the admittance during the old injection, uh, and you have to avoid the resonances.
You again, beam cooling, um, in for reflectance.
Uh, this depends on the design of the optics. Um, and then the other things you can do is to minimize the beta function at the interaction point.
Uh, but there are limitations on how small can be the beta function of the interaction point, because, uh, if we right now, um, interaction point,
then you have if you over point, the way the particle meet, uh, collide in the left and right, you have some free space for the experiment.
So this is a drift space. And there are no magnets in the machine.
Magnets in the space of the beta function. It goes in this way.
Now, if you make, uh, beta, uh, it is small and, uh, and uh, alpha is zero, which is derivative of the beta function in the interaction point.
Then uh, the beta function can be uh, expressed in this way.
And what you see that when the beta uh, star is very small, uh, this this, uh, parabolic increase is very strong.
So for example, this we see here, uh, in this, uh, this plot that we see the, a high luminosity, uh,
Large Hadron Collider, which I say beta star or 15 centimeter compared to five millimeter, uh, beta.
You see that the beta function is much, uh, faster up when you move away from the IP?
Uh, in the other thing, the, um, the, uh, then, um, and then and then what do you see this, uh, beta function increase so much?
Uh, um, if the bunch, the bunch length, uh, is not zero.
They say that the rate is is a given length, which depends on the momentum compaction factor.
Then what that means is that the particles which are on the end, uh, in the particle,
which are on the tail of the two of the two beams of the two bunches, um, they collide in the middle where the beta function is minimum.
But the, the other combination tail, uh, and uh, and, and then and so on,
they will collide at the position where the beta function is not the minimum.
And this is then this our glass effect that I, uh, I, that I introduced before, if we choose depends on the bunch of length.
If bunch would be zero lengths of them would be no problem.
Oh, and the other problem with the small beta function is diagrammatically, which comes from the, uh, interaction between the um,
why this is chromaticity, because now we have, uh, um, a interaction point, and we put our first lines here as some distance, which I call LCR.
Uh, the focal length of this, uh, of this quadrupole is related will start by this, uh,
expression where, uh, cup k the time l the length of the path was the integral, this, uh, strength.
Then, uh, from the, uh, expression that we have found before, uh, for the beta in the drift,
we find out that the the maximum beta will be at this quadrupole. Uh, and we will have this expression.
So we see that, uh, this is the, the expression for the maximum beta at this at the first quadrupole after the interaction point.
Now the contribution to the linear chromaticity is this one.
And uh, if we took a dispersion that I found before for the uh, for the maximum beta, the Isa LSR divide the beta star.
So for a given, uh, beta star, uh, a L star, which is the space for the experiment,
should be as small as possible in order to keep the chromaticism small.
Uh, but the on the other end, the fact that the L star, uh, is, uh,
is it must be small in the limit means also that the this focal length is very small.
So the integrate the strength of the quadruple will be very, very large.
In other limit come from the interaction. Uh, yeah.
Go for uh fast. They say only that the, um, the fact is that the HB, the other beam is a, uh, explains.
So we chose a nonlinear lens.
Um, and now if you impose a that the beam, um, factor, you said the same and you will distribute it equally between the two plane.
So you want to add the two chromatic it being equal. Uh, then you come to this expression and uh, which means that the, uh,
for electron colliders where the vertical emitter is much smaller than the horizontal one,
you, uh, you want to over the beta star in the vertical plane, much smaller than the horizontal Y for not radiating particles.
Move, move on. So then you want to have the two beta function equal, um, the interaction point.
So now we come to particular challenges for the muon collider.
This idea of new collider is not new. It's very old from 67.
Uh, and I have to say that I am old enough that I have seen already several revivals of this idea,
um, like this one, uh, point like the if you want to point like, like the electrons in the positron.
So the whole energy scattered by the interacting particles, but they are much, uh, stronger, um, much, uh,
area so that there is in practice for the rendering of energy we are considering, there is, in practice, no radiation.
Um, you have to produce, uh, a large number of, uh, of muons, um, because of the small, uh, lifetime the f and they have to be quickly,
uh, cooled down and accelerated, you know, to, to as much as possible, uh, particle interaction.
Um, on the other end, you expect that whether through the cooling process, that still a relatively large,
transversely dense, uh, and, uh, and with the low beta star that you want to have afforded,
maximizing the luminosity, uh, which will be some few millimeters, uh, what you have is that you will end up with the strong,
large aperture, uh, quadruples in the interaction region, uh, which are the large beta.
So, as I said, you have larger chromaticity in the, in the, in the, in this, uh, quadrupole nearby interaction region.
Will be source of uh, uh, of uh, uh, perturbation if they are misalignment misaligned or if they have fields error.
Uh, you want to have a small circumference because as this, this particular short leaving you want that they collide as much as possible.
Uh, in uh, in the, in the time they leave in the, in the, in the, in the ring, you have a relatively high density because you want to park all the,
all the moons, uh, in the, in few, uh, as most as possible number of bunches in general in this particular this is true for then for the muon.
So so you have something like pardon me.
You have something like uh to ten to the 12. This is what they expect per punch.
Uh, me? Okay.
Yeah. Um, and then as these particles are, uh, decaying.
You have to protect the magnets in the detector.
Uh, then there are neutrinos, uh, hotspot, which limit the length of the free, uh, regions, a field free region to do something like a meter.
Uh, for beam energy above, uh, above two meters. So, um, in part in the in the interaction region, you have longer states.
So this you cannot do. So you need some more creative solutions.
Uh, then we want to weather this, uh, for our glass effect.
We want the bench length us to be, uh, small respect to the beta star.
Um, and, uh, this means that you will need a small, um, momentum compact form factor.
Uh, because, uh, I introduced the, uh, before.
Depends a bunch of things. Depends on this factor.
And, uh, in this in this has to be small for in the whole the range of energy of the particles, not only in the for delta p over p zero.
So in this something on the order of ten to the five. Uh, and then you need of course also some dynamical aperture.
Also they don't do many terms. So you don't really need the long tracking to find out dynamical aperture that you need to steal.
Uh, something like on the order of three sigma.
And this in presence of stronger six tuple for correcting the chromaticity in with the in presence of the relatively larger energy spread of the beam.
Um, in the uh colliders where the um particle was not so strong, you could correct the chromaticity.
Uh, the overall chromaticity using the, uh,
quadruples in the arcs of where are the dipoles in the in the where there there is naturally, there is dispersion.
Um, this is an example, for example, for the ERA collider.
Um, but this schema is not anymore adequate for the, uh, muon collider, for example,
this is say, uh, something a 1.5 DV um, Collider, which was failing, um, because of the,
uh, the, uh, energy, uh, stability of this, uh, of the order, the momentum, relative momentum,
uh, stability of this machine was something like plus minus, uh, 0.8 percent.
Uh, using that this kind of scheme is, uh, I say the Fourier era.
Uh, so you had to we had to invent something, uh, different.
And, uh, one approach is to use the, uh, Montague chromatic, uh, functions, uh, to correct the local chromatic, uh, correction this, uh,
function w they described the change of the twist, uh, parameters, um, uh,
due to the, uh, to the energy, uh, to the momentum, um, to the momentum, uh, spread.
Um, and they this, uh, this, uh, um, quantity A and B, uh, obeying to these, uh, equations.
So the, uh, were, uh, so now what we see is that a become, uh, non-zero, uh, when you, uh, you come from the IP, uh, A and B are zero starting.
Then when you come through the, uh, the first group also where k is not zero, then this, uh, it becomes become non-zero.
But on the other end, uh, you have uh, that as long as, uh, the phase advance doesn't change, then, uh, then B doesn't change.
Now, uh, when the phase advance doesn't change as um,
a change in particular where the beta function are small because that is the integral of one over beta.
So instead the.
Yeah, when we have, uh, a if you have in a place where the beta function is very larger than the feature phase advance and doesn't change.
So the idea is that you put it closer to the, uh, to the final focus quadruples,
uh, where beta is, uh, very large so that the and so the phase advance is zero.
And then you correct the, um, you correct to the inverse the e and keeps beta, then zero, then, uh, but for this reason,
you as if you want to put a sex symbol nearby the, the final focus,
you have to generate horizontal dispersion because otherwise the there's no effect.
No. So you have to generate, uh, uh, dispersion nearby the interaction region between which means,
uh, okay, this and then there is a second or the chromaticity, uh, which can be important.
Once you go to the first order, you have to see the other orders, the second order chromaticity, uh, as this expression and uh, and then uh,
which means that, for example, you have in addition to, uh, to B, you have to correct also, uh, the uh, derivative of the dispersion with respect to.
The momentum. Relative momentum. Okay.
It turns out okay. Where do you put the. First of all, we have seen the nearby the, uh, uh, the, uh, Final four.
What, the larger beta function. But we correct with the six to about x or epsilon.
So it is convenient. It comes out that is convenient to correct first the uh, vertical uh beta function.
So it means that you focus first in the horizontal, uh, uh, the uh, reaction so that you get, uh,
where you put this vertical for using, uh, with X1, you put in a place where beta epsilon is very large and beta x is zero.
Um, and then instead the you correct the, the then the where the horizontal uh,
amount that you found, you correct with the one six tuple, which is at the uh,
multiple of pi over two with the uh, from the IP, and where instead the, uh, the horizontal beta function is much larger than the vertical one.
And you use the in sexual in order to reinforce, uh, the effect of the first, uh,
um, horizontal support and to cancel the aberrations that are introduced by, by it.
And then you correct also the first order, the dispersion, you say here, uh, by, uh, introducing the, uh, sex also at the lower beta, uh,
location so that you don't perturb the chromaticity correction for this, you need the that instead that,
that, uh, to have the dispersion horizontal dispersion is larger possible at all.
Uh, the, uh, the, um, the, uh, the the six volts.
Okay. And then we come to an example of a three, a DV, a center of mass, uh, collider, uh, which I say, uh, beta star off five millimeter.
So this has been, uh, developed during the uh, muon accelerator program at, uh, Fermilab and other laboratory in the US.
Um, and we consider the two schemes, um, in the free space for the experiment would be, uh, plus -six meter.
And this is a, um, a schema which would be feasible with the niobium 13, uh, magnets, which are already available.
So this is a kind of, uh, uh, we call this, uh, therefore using for using the triplet, um,
and uh, um, and this and this is a quadruple because, um, we have instead of using the for using,
uh, uh, quadruples, uh, what means for using,
for using means we use for using the horizontal plane and for using focusing instead in the vertical plane.
Because a quadruple, um, if for using one plane, they for using the other.
Um, and this uh, from this quadruple as I said, that that we need the to have dispersion in order to, uh, to correct the chromaticity locally.
Uh, then the uh, the, the some of the, um, the focusing, uh, quadruples, which are shown in cyan.
Um, they have a two dipole component. Uh, the quadrupole in a radius, uh, is, uh, larger than five sigma plus a two centimeter for absorbers,
which are, uh, placed there to protect the magnets from the decay particles.
Um, and both, uh, design has been studied from the optic point view about they still need the,
um, uh, studies for background in the energy, uh, deposition.
Okay. To show that this, uh, could be realized as this interaction region.
Uh, you have there are some studies, um, here, the values of the, um, the characteristic of these magnets.
And as you can see, there are even, uh, some, uh, some design, uh, which has been carried out at Fermilab.
Okay. This these are the data again for the replay and then the quadruple version.
And this is an example of the, uh, of the uh uh um, uh, what they explain the, uh, how you correct the locally, the chromaticity.
You have, uh, the first of all, your, the which are, uh, correct w epsilon, which is the place where the, uh, vertical beta function is.
This one is very large means that the, the horizontal beta function is very small.
Then the second, uh, quadruple is psychosexual,
which correct means that the horizontal plane is in a place where beta epsilon is some almost zero, and instead the beta x is large.
And this is the twin, uh, sectional at the, uh, over two.
Um. Okay.
Oh, yeah. And these are the just to visualize better. This you see now these are doubling functions.
The blue one is the now the vertical one which is the first which is correct.
And then there are the horizontal which is first sort of base first of all.
And then it goes to zero at the second of sexual.
Uh, as the interaction region, as a larger uh, momentum compaction, this has to be uh, and we want to have a small compaction.
Uh, we have to, uh, the, the, um, we have to design the rest of the machine so that the, uh, the momentum compaction is,
uh, um, compensated the compact momentum compaction contribution from the interaction region.
So this is done with this arc scale, which are called some momentum, uh, compaction, flexible, uh, cells.
Um, the chromaticity in this, say less is also to be corrected.
And this is done by uh using uh two or more orthogonal values in that larger dispersion and uh,
in the cell uh middle where instead the, the uh the dispersion is large and the beta are small.
Uh, then we can, uh, um, we can uh, uh,
put the quadruple for control of the momentum compaction in for in the six power for controlling the first order dispersion.
This is sale advance, uh, between the sales and the phase advance is 300 degree,
which means that the overseas, uh, six sales, uh, you compensate the third order driving terms that,
as I said before, uh, if you pay attention to the phase advance between the, uh, between the six,
you can avoid that to drive some of these, uh, uh, uh, resonances in the, in the ring.
Then we have a tuning section to, uh, connect the interaction region to the, to the arc sales and which was used also for,
uh, um, tuning the beta function and the direction region, uh, interaction point,
um, from between 3 millimeter and 3 centimeter, which can be, um, important in the case of that,
uh, the importance of the beam is not what you expected or if you want to make some, uh, okay.
And then I think we come.
Okay. This is how this looks like tuning section. So altogether, the machine become a 4.3, uh, kilometer long.
This is the performance of the machine, which are, um, relatively, uh, satisfying.
Um, and and then here I put.
Okay, there are several parameters in blue. There are this relative to the beam energy of 1.5 DV, which is this which I have shown, uh, before.
And, uh. Then we come to a summary, uh, so I show some of the challenges related to the,
in particular to the, uh, the, um, colliders and the one of possible approaches to overcome them.
Um, we have a, we have the another design for a 1.5 DV center of mass, which was studied more in details than this one.
And we in that case, we, uh, also study the effect of field, uh, data effort.
Also for them the with magnet design there was a study of the energy deposition detector background in this study.
They didn't point out to a showstopper the three TV uh, collider is already more complicated.
Um, and, um, and the, uh, and, uh, the investigation still would be needed for reasons for the off energy, dynamic presence of being beam,
which is relatively poor, and the effect of fringe fields and field errors, which proved to be important.
The for the 1.5 TV Collider. I've still to be uh, started from work.
Um, so the the problems the problem comes mainly from the fact that the the experiment
with increasing energy want to have a smaller one to have more luminosity,
the luminosity has to go like, uh, gamma squared and uh, and uh, and then it goes like gamma squared.
You gain a factor gamma with the fact that they meet and become smaller.
So that cross section of the beam interacting, the colliding beam is smaller.
But the um, the other factor is to gamma from the optics.
So you have to reduce the beta function.
In fact, now CERN is pursuing attentively even uh, new, um, Collider, uh, design, which is based on the concept that I have illustrated.
And, uh, and then they have to go down from the beta start of five, uh, millimeter, which where we are using for the 3D, DV, they go down to 1.5mm.
And this make the life, uh, very difficult. This, I suppose I was I made clear.
Thanks. All right.
We don't have a ton of time of questions, but I think we can do 1 or 2 relatively quick ones.
Um, so do are there questions from the graph? All right.
So you see. I believe you mentioned, I think it was slide 20, um, on, uh, that, uh, the transverse, um,
beam size needs to be less than or equal to beta star, uh, to avoid the hourglass effect.
I think this has been said, uh, like a few times. And it was not this one maybe.
Oh, yes, that was it. Uh, this one. Okay.
Um, to avoid the hourglass effect, I think I've, I've heard this a few times, but I'm not sure I understand what the hourglass effect is.
Is the fact that the two part, the two bunches they meet in the interaction point, the where there is the minimum.
So the two uh huh, collide in the middle.
Then they go further and the head will now not collide anymore.
In the middle, where the I, where there is the minimum beta function that will collide with the other part of
the of the bunch of the other bunch in a place with the beta function is larger,
and so the cross-section becomes larger and the luminosity actually is smaller.
So this is a factor that can be computed. Uh is geometrical factor which can be computed.
Then the will be always smaller than one. And depends on along with this bunch this bunches.
So you don't blame the no problem at all meet in the middle. High on the slide right before this.
On slide 19, you talked about protection of magnets for decay.
Um, I know I've heard about tungsten liners and masks, but what other research is going on for the protection of magnets?
I don't know if, you know, um, for for the detector.
Yeah. But I think about this. You have, uh, next told.
Okay. Sounds good. Thank you. Okay. All right.
So with that, I think we're running up against. Well, maybe maybe do one more question, but I misunderstood.
I thought that they had 45 minutes. Yeah, okay.
Plus 15 minutes. Questions or not? Uh, I think it's 45.
There's. Yeah. There's no it was 45 minutes total.
I'm sorry. Uh, okay. Okay. Um, okay, maybe we can do one more quick question.
If there one. Uh, my question is going to be a bit general.
I think you mentioned in a couple of places when you were talking about design parameters.
Maybe the latest one is, uh, slide 30 something, but you mentioned how, like, um, some certain effects become important.
Oh, yeah. It was the one with fringe fields. Uh, you were saying that certain effects become important.
Is that, like, how do you determine the swing effects are strong enough?
What's your metric for, uh, certain effects, like fringe field effects, uh, to become important.
Like, how strong do they have to be? How does that how does that selected?
I think what you do is that, uh, uh, you put some values which make sense in the, uh, your computations and then you local to the, to the results.
You want that, uh, the tune, for example, should be as constant as possible when you have,
you know, that the, uh, you expect the let's say that the energy spread is something like,
uh, one per mile and then, uh, and then you, you look if in this range of, uh, uh,
of momentum, uh, your, you wanna stay more or less constant, you cannot go on a resonance.
You cannot go, um, in particular not on an integer.
When the um, become integer, the machine. If you ever errors, you will have always dipole errors.
There is no close to the orbit. And, uh, you don't want to be on an integer because then in that case the machine, the optics doesn't exist.
Probably. Um, so you have to have a, the tune is uh, s uh, and then you have to wave on this energy range.
You have to have a momentum compaction is more or less possible because of the batch length.
And then you have, uh, and then you look, uh, when you realize this with your size doubles, then you go to look to the what is the dynamical aperture?
And if it's bad and then you put and then you start putting, you see if it's okay, then you continue, you put more,
more problems fringe fields being beam um, orbit errors, which we never consider in this, uh, in the studies.
And then, uh, and then you see what comes with the dynamical laboratory.
If you go to still this three sigma that you would like at least with, uh.
Okay. Thank you so much. Let's thank our speaker again. Thanks. Um, um, request from us yesterday.
