# Muon Cooling Experiments, Diktys Stratakis

Okay, so this talk will be a little bit different than the talks.
What you heard so far. Um, I will talk about cooling experiments.
Um, but in reality, it's about one cooling experiment.
Uh, and I will focus on the one what we did here at Fermilab, that Fermilab local, uh, which, uh,
I think will be very, uh, in of interest of you because it has it has a relation to the main colliders as well.
So, uh, let's first of all talk about, uh, ionization cooling.
So there are three processes that are involved in analyzation cooling.
One is good. Uh, and two are bad. Okay. And you have to tune those three together to make it work.
So let me start, first of all, with a good, uh, process, which is, uh, the loss of, uh, muon energy because of ionization.
So and for that, I know that Katsuya has talked a little bit about that yesterday.
Uh, the key item is this diagram, what you see here when I plot the energy loss, uh, versus, uh, momentum.
So there are three different regions here. Uh, so first of all, it's the expensive region.
Uh, so this is at high energies. So above, uh, one, uh, momentum is higher than one, uh, GV per c.
Uh, and this is expensive because if you operate in this regime, uh,
the problem is when you need ultra strong focusing and this becomes very expensive, now there is another regime, uh, what I call unstable.
And this is because here you have this rapid change of energy.
And again, this is not good because different particles will see different energy.
So it's very hard to design a cooling channel in this regime. And as I will show you also later in my talk, this is also bad for not cooling.
You cannot do not cooling if you are in this regime. So you end up in this very narrow regime.
And that's why are cooling channels are optimized somewhere between 200 to 300%.
Now the next thing, the next process is struggling.
Uh, and this is a bad process. Now everything is explained in this picture here.
Now, due to the statistical nature of ionization energy loss, large fluctuations cannot cure.
Uh, on the amount on energy, uh, deposited, uh, by the particle.
Well, it pass one absorber. So you might start with this energy.
You go from material and then you end up with this distribution of energy.
And at the end you have lower energy than you had initially.
And this effect, uh, which is a bad effect, becomes worse at higher energies where higher energies, the more struggling you have.
The other bad process is scattering. Okay.
This is also very bad. And what happens is when the beam goes through a material, uh, it basically is getting scattered by an average angle theta.
But you see right here, now this scattering angle has a dependance of a thickness.
Of course, you see the k parameter here, but also depends on the properties of a material.
Okay. So you can tune this thing somehow. So you see here the radiation length.
And also uh it has a dependance of energy for beam.
You see here the momentum. Right. So here if you are at higher momentums you have less scattering, which is exactly the opposite of a struggling.
So you see it's a nightmare okay. It's not unfortunately things are not working together.
So you end up, uh, with this beautiful equation for the transverse cooling.
So which shows you how the transverse admittance, uh, is getting, uh, cooled.
And you can see that you have two different processes, two different terms, the good term, the cooling term and the bottom.
Now you notice but the bottom depends on the scattering angle okay.
The less scattering you have the better uh the more you cool.
Also it depends on the focusing okay. The smaller the better function is, the better.
Uh, the smaller this term is and therefore you less scattering you have.
And also of course it depends on the properties of a material.
So in other words, you can see that the transverse cooling depends on the material properties,
but also depends on the lattice properties and the beam properties as well.
So all these things have to work together for you in order to do the transverse cooling.
Now keep in mind we have talked only about transverse cooling for not cooling.
Things become a bit more complicated. Okay. So this is the formula that describes the transverse cooling.
The sigma E is the momentum spreading and then the spread.
So the smaller the momentum the energy spread is the smaller the midtum going to limit.
And says. Now notice again that you have two terms.
Uh, one good term, but depends of course, on this gradient here of energy loss and also the bad term, but depends on the on the struggling effect.
But I described uh earlier. Now in order to cool the beam, uh you need to have a right sign.
So metaphor, it means that the higher energy particles need to, uh, have um,
they need to be decelerated in the low momentum and low moment particles need to be accelerated.
And the only way to do that is you have to operate in this regime here.
You cannot be in this region here. I think it becomes clear.
So that's why, uh, all if you want to do cooling, you have to operate, uh, in this area, except except the final cooling.
Where? There, uh, you don't care so much about internal cooling.
And that's why if you read carefully the papers, you will see that when they do final cooling,
they operate around 100 per c because they're gonna relax a little bit by focusing as well.
Now, the problem is, of course, if you look at these curves here, uh, you will realize that the,
uh, the, the, the X, uh, so this, this gradient here, uh, is not changing rapidly.
Okay. It's very, very smooth change. Okay.
So therefore, uh, you cannot really look eternally cool by being very well, but you have to play a trick in the trick.
What you do is you arrange things so that you can separate the particles in position.
Okay. So basically a higher momentum particle is going to move in a different x one.
The low momentum particles. If you play this trick then you can enhance this term.
And then if you arrange things in such a way that the high momentum particles will move through more material flow,
less material when the low momentum once you can enhance, uh, this gradient and therefore you can cool the beam longitudinally.
That's why we use wedges. That's why we talk about dispersion.
When we talk about low we do not cooling because you want to play this trick and enhance this gradient.
So of course, uh, we need, uh, cooling for the main collider.
Uh, I'm passing this slide. Uh, I'm also passing this slide because we shows you the scheme, how we call the beam, uh, flow transition cooling.
Just to emphasize that the channels are very, very long.
We're talking about kilometer long channels. And of course, what we like to see is we like to see this thing here.
You're going to see the transverse admittance transverse phase space to getting reduced.
And we want to see the same thing, uh, for the null phase space.
So initially uh, when before even me joining uh, uh, the muon collider,
I thought back in 2008 the, the default scheme for cooling was this structure here.
So they had rings. Okay. So the idea was, first of all, to start with a large ring, okay.
And let the beam go around and around and around around and cool the beam.
Then go to the next ring. But now has a little bit higher field okay.
So therefore the beam building becomes smaller again.
Go around around around cool. Then go to the next one, next one, next one, next one, next one and end up here in this very very small a ring.
What you have is 1014 Tesla magnets. So on paper a very beautiful okay.
You could do it. It's economic. You can use various cavities.
You can reuse the magnets. Very nice. But but it's a problem how you can go from this ring to the other one or from this one to the other one.
Okay. So a little bit later people realized, nah, this is not going to work.
This is not the thing, but I want to see. So they moved to something else.
They moved to this structure here, which we call the Guggenheim.
Okay. So and this is an influence from the Guggenheim Museum in New York.
So now you connect both rings and you can create a helix.
Okay. You go this way. So therefore you don't have to worry about, uh, injection next actions a continuous thing okay.
But in fact, this was so beautiful that when we published this paper, uh,
in Physical Review, the editors took this picture and put it on the colored kaleidoscope.
They had a special edition where they put some nice images from pictures.
Uh, and in a special issue, I'm not sure if I do it still right now, but that was ten years ago.
Uh, however, the one problem with this structure was at the end.
Remember? When the field becomes very high, you need to have very small rings, right?
The problem is, if you have very high fields, very small rings, you have to start very.
But fringe feels okay. So they thought, okay, if I have Freshfields in the back, then the particle will not do really a circle,
but it will start see the friends fields of nearby calls.
It will not work. It will be a nightmare. So we realized. But yes, this looks pretty for a publication.
But it's not the thing that you want to do at the end. So then we move to something else.
So basically we worked on a lattice for this trade. So basically imagine if you take this Guggenheim and you stretch it okay.
This is what you really do. So you have a linear channel.
The problem is you don't reuse the elements of a beam pass one time, but at least you don't have to worry about many, many other defects.
And then on so we published this. This became the baseline for cooling.
And this is the one that the emcee is using right now as well as the default scheme.
So now there has been two major efforts.
So until 2015, let's go back. Uh, people were hammering us about ionization cooling.
Okay. But it was no, really, uh, demonstrator demonstration of ionization cooling.
Okay, so but always we're saying, uh, you know, Dick, this you did this very nice.
But, hey, you know, what are the data will show us? You know, if it's, uh, you know, real life.
Okay. You wanna see some data? So, uh, this thing has progressed and it has been done two different efforts, but basically showed cooling.
And, of course, those two efforts had two completely different scopes.
Okay. One was, uh, the Mice experiment, which was funded for that purpose.
Okay. And they showed, uh, transverse cooling. It worked very well, very nice.
Uh, but then here at Fermilab, we designed also one experiment, uh, specifically dedicated for G minus two,
but indirectly for the muon collider, and were able actually to use the idea of cooling to enhance the beam, uh, for G minus two.
And each of this topic could be a separate talk.
Okay. So I decided for this meeting here, uh, to focus on this, uh, because there are many, many interesting elements with Immune Collider as well.
Uh, and then, uh, another time we can talk about this experiment.
So let me talk about the a G minus two experiment.
First, uh, give you an introduction. So the idea of a G minus two was to use,
we store a drink and basically bring a moon beam inside this ring and basically measure anomalous magnetic moment.
Okay. Now, this experiment has been done at Brookhaven.
Okay. But the purpose of the G minus two experiment was to improve uncertainty, okay, by a factor of four.
In order to do that, you had to deliver ten over 14 muons in this ring.
Okay. So that was the plan. And this way you could get 20 times more the statistics of a Brookhaven experiment okay.
And then you could basically claim, uh, victory. It was a key time of experiment was to deliver the beam at momentum 3.1.
Sure. Because this simplifies the analysis was very, very important to stay at 3.1 GeV.
No more, no less. Now, when we wrote, uh, the technical design report, uh, back in 2014, before the experiment started,
we thought, okay, will be done in 18 months, what was actually the best make 18 months.
However, it took us five years.
Okay. Just to let you know that things sometimes don't happen as we think on paper.
Okay. However, it was successful. We got six runs.
We had of course Covid between and some other things going on, but were not uh, against us but were against us.
But when we made it, we actually passed the 20 times Brookhaven statistics.
Okay. So this was this was a quite successful experiment that we in now here, I don't want to focus somewhat about the data of experiment,
but I would like to focus more on how we delivered beam to the experiment, because this is also related to with me on Collider.
And for that we had a facility called the Muon Campus.
Okay. So what we do is we start with h of protons, like you want an immune collider compressed at 120 nanosecond, not two nanosecond, of course.
So it's a little bit easier. But when you have a target, it will be somewhere here.
And then you have a decline. So this line is about 200m long where basically the muons decay.
And you, uh, what they pions decay and you, you create muons and then you have a ring that we call the delivering,
not to be confused with, uh, with uh, with a G minus string.
And the idea of this ring is to let the means to separate the protons so that you can only move a proton.
So I will come back into this.
And then once you remove the protons, you take the clean moon beam and you send it to the G minus the ring, which is right here.
Okay. Uh, in the future, uh, actually very near.
Future, we will use the same facility. Deliver beam to meet we.
So this has been me on campus. From the top. Uh, and here I would like now to start describing the target.
Okay, so we start the feature beam like the beam collider, and we hit this target.
Now, the target looks like a soda can in real life.
Okay. We use a material called, uh, Inconel. It's a nickel alloy, but you see here in blue, and then it's surrounded by beryllium.
Okay, we'll use beryllium. It's a very robust material. And you want to protect the target.
And this target also rotates. Okay. Slowly. So that to make sure that when the beam hits the target, the damage happens uniformly.
Okay. That's very, very important. So on for beam hits the target.
You generate the secondary beam. And then you have a uh a magnet uh lithium lens.
But it's focusing the beam again. The parameters are much more relaxed about the main collider, but it's same concept.
And then you have a column meter, but you see right here and the column meter has this thick layer.
But you see, uh, I don't remember what material it is,
but the idea is to remove the high momentum particles from the beam path, and then you have a dipole.
This green thing is a dipole. And the purpose of a dipole is recall.
But the g means to experiment once 3.1 of means right.
So when you come out from the target you have this a mess here right.
This is the means and this is the energy. So you have this long tail.
By going through this bending magnet you select the beam okay.
So now you see a nice peak at 3.1 GeV.
Okay. Once you pass this magnet, you have a right momentum.
And now you travel along the beam line to go to the ring. And this shows you, uh, the evolution of a beam so you can see with a black color.
Of course, you see the total, uh, the total, uh, intensity of a beam.
So this is the decay line, 250m. We had only one instrument.
Okay, unfortunately, to get data and compare with a simulation.
Uh, this was at the end of a line. You see this black box here?
The the data agreed, actually, with, uh, with the predictions from the simulation, which is shown by the curves, which I was very happy to see that.
But of course, unfortunately, I could not tell what particles I have. Okay.
Because you measure an intensity, but it could be anything.
Okay. So for what? I have to rely on simulation.
And based on the simulation, we had, uh, pions and we showed you how battalions decay along the lines of the pions should drop.
Okay. Then you have muons, which should be created.
This is the green line, but it's some collimation going on.
We know what's happening there. Uh, but didn't worry as much.
And then also we have positrons. Okay. And of course we had a lot of protons.
Okay. But was that was not wanted okay. Because these protons arrive in very minor string, then it will be, uh, very messy with electrons.
Won't to worry so much because of signal radiation. They will there will be there will be gone.
But the protons had to have to be removed.
So therefore, before moving to the storage ring of G minus two, we have to go through with the labeling, which was our ring just before the ring.
And the idea was here to circular the beam. And initially protons and muons overlap.
Okay, don't ask me why the the profile has B shape because that could be a separate lecture.
But there is a reason for that okay. So they separate.
But what happens is because the protons are heavier they have higher evolution times okay than 1 million.
So you basically do four revolutions okay around with delivering you you you create a spacing between the bunches.
So you see uh, muons with red uh protons with blue 210 nanoseconds.
And that's the right time to separate the beam. Now, why this is the right time.
Because in order to remove a protons, what you really do is you have a kicker.
So what you do is you have a magnetic field. So the beam is going around like this, right?
So you apply a horizontal magnetic field, uh, at the right time.
Uh, and then that extracts the beam vertically and sends its descendants away.
That's the idea. But because, uh, our facility, uh, is not fancy enough, you have to wait.
Because the erasing time of this kicker is around 180 nanoseconds.
Okay, so you have to wait for four turns, do the 210 nanosecond separation, and then apply, uh, the kicker and then remove the protons.
Okay. You have to do the right thing. Of course. Don't take out the muons. You want to take the protons.
So that's why you do four turns. Again. You don't want to do so many terms either, because if you do so many turns the muons decay.
Uh, and then of course G minus two will not be happy. So you have to be careful with this as well.
All right, so then, uh, once you clean the muon beam, uh, then you take your moon beam, and then you have another kicker here somewhere here.
And you extract the beam vertically again, the muon beam out of a delivering,
and then you basically walk to the store I drink, so you go this way, okay.
And this is the storage. And this is how you send the beam uh, to G minus two.
And of course, later, uh, this line will be used for the, uh, for the to experiment.
Now, at the end, uh, of again here. This picture here shows you sometimes how much the data, uh, can be different from the simulation.
Okay. So now compare, uh, for focus on on the green line and, uh, on the green on the, on the green line and on the green square here.
So the green, uh, square tells me how many millions I had at the end.
Okay. So the means, whether arriving to g -2 or 3 times ten over five.
Okay. Now parenthesis here, if you look at the demonstrator pathway, AMC has they talking about the same roughly number of means for the demonstrator.
Okay. What I want to say here is that this number could be very good for us as well, even if you want to talk about demonstrators.
But anyway I close the parentheses. So you have three times ten over five means predicted uh, measured.
But in reality the simulation was more optimistic. Okay. You were expecting, uh, about almost six times ten over six.
Ten over five. Okay. So there was about a 40% discrepancy.
Okay. So that's something else you have to keep in mind.
But sometimes what you see in the simulation is not necessarily exactly, uh, the same, uh, what you see in real life.
And a factor of two in this particular case was not so bad according to my context, but some other people were very unhappy with that.
So now this brings the motivation of a cooling. Now okay. So this now I start the interesting part.
So what is now the problem. The good problem is that if you look at this histogram here you with blue you
see what is the distribution of means that survive inside the storage ring.
Okay. So you have means at 3.10 okay.
But very narrow okay. So the momentum spread is point 1% okay.
This is the means. But survive in the storage ring.
So has a very narrow acceptance okay. The problem was about the beam but we delivered two G minus two.
So just outside the ring has this red profile okay.
So now you see what you have is you delivered basically a beam that is an order of magnitude more in momentum spread.
So it's 1.21.2 versus point 12 okay.
So when I said but this is a waste, you know, all this neon means by the outside the acceptance of a ring is wasted.
Okay. Why we should waste this beam okay. And this is where the magic, uh, trick came up.
Okay. Is why we don't use a wedge to cool the beam longitudinally so that we can put more miles, uh, within this range.
Uh, so this was my idea. So we said we take the beam before it goes to the G minor, storing, uh, in a this.
So we on a dispersive area. So in a dispersive are the particles are separated in momentum.
Right. Uh, so we follow different paths and then further downstream we create a wedge.
We put a wedge with the idea that low momentum particles will be unaffected.
Okay. But the high momentum particles will go for more material than the one below momentum ones.
And then if you tune this thing right at the end, everything will have the same momentum, which in our case was the 3.1.
And this way we could basically, uh, help us to, to collect more data.
So that was the principle. And then we thought, okay, where should we do it?
Okay, where we should do this experiment. So we looked very carefully.
This is the immune campus. Again. We thought if we do it here at the beginning, no it's not good because you have to deal with protons.
You have to deal with pions. It will be very, very confusing if we do it in the delivering.
Not really good because you have very high beta function. Okay. Remember for the cooling you need to have low beta functions.
So we said okay here at the end, here at the end. But it was the sweet spot.
So but it was a particular area just before the started drink.
What was an order of dispersion. Okay. What you see here with green okay.
Which is the thing that you want. And the beta functions luckily were very not very low okay.
Because before the low ten ten meters okay. You don't want to go here okay.
But but functions are 100m is crazy. But here they are very, very low okay, so this is this area.
But I'm talking about about 12m. I have three dipoles already in place.
You have magnets already in place. The only thing that you need to do is you need to buy a wedge and just stick it over there and you're done.
That was my idea. What was the principle? Here, I show you a little bit more details about the data functions.
Okay. So this is again this this thing. What you see here is just this this area here.
Okay. So the wedge sits right here with solid lines.
You see the better functions, the design better functions.
So they look especially because they're the horizontal one.
But you can't have it most. It's very low. It's about three meters which is great.
But uh, we thought maybe we can do better.
So we'll try it out a bit to play with your optics, because we have quadruples.
And we're able also to load a little bit of a better function on the wedge location, which is shown by the dashed line.
Same thing about the dispersion. We have already natural dispersion where horizontal plane.
Uh, but if we play with optics we can even, uh, increase the dispersion of one of the wedges.
So we did that to improve the cooling. Now this is the principle, uh, simulated.
So, uh, this is big, which we assumed, remember, about the dispersion in the horizontal plane.
So the wedge using the horizontal plane, the beam is going this way.
The wedge is looking this way. So we really want to touch only the high momentum particles, okay.
We don't want to slow down the beam because this could be a nightmare as well.
So in this curve here you see the number of miles momentum with blue.
You see what happens when you don't have a wedge. Okay. You are centered at 3.1 but you have this high momentum tail.
If you start putting the wedge in. So if you look at the red uh, histogram, if you are right here, so you are near the bottom center.
So you touch on the up a small fraction of a beam. You can see that the high momentum tail disappears.
We don't do anything to the low momentum tail okay.
However we increase the number near the mean, which is exactly what you want to do if you put the wedge even more along the beam path.
So if you are right here. So if you follow the orange histogram, you will see.
But again nothing happens. The below momentum tail.
The high momentum tail shrinks shrinks a little bit more and then boom you have more particles along the mean.
So that was the trick. At least in the simulation. It looked very nice.
So I passed this now before, uh, looking at materials.
The next question was, okay, what kind of materials should we use? All right.
So I had to go exercise to look at materials.
And what did we do? We did something that simple. We took the periodic table, printed it out.
And then for each material, we we take a ratio between the energy loss, which is the good thing divided by the scattering term.
Okay. So you if Vanjie loss term is very large in the scattering term,
which basically is but ideation length is very low when this ratio is very high this means but your material is great right.
So we looked at different materials here and we said okay well iron Q is about 30.
Uh, you know, diamond is about 70.
So diamond is better. Uh, if you go to lithium hydroxide or lithium, it's fantastic or brilliant.
Okay. But we wanted to involve students in this experiment.
And if we talk about lithium lithium hydride, beryllium was it became immediately a no no okay.
We don't want to deal with it. We are afraid of this. But we found actually something else okay.
We found but polyethylene. So plastic surprisingly is very good okay.
And you can actually very cheap to give $200. Uh, almost $100.
Yes. That was a price you could buy. Uh, wedge of plastic.
Okay. Which was amazing. Another material that we liked is the so-called black diamond is a bond carbide.
Okay. Boron carbide looked also very good. It was very heavy, very dense.
And the reason why we like boron carbide not solid, because it has a high two.
But remember we have also very limited space okay. So the more denser material is the smaller the wedge should be higher in terms of thickness.
So therefore we like this idea of using a more dense material as well.
So we picked two materials okay. We book we picked the plastic and boron carbide.
Bone carbide was about 5000 was a bit more expensive. Um and then we developed a quick Monte Carlo code, uh, thanks to, uh, Mike cyphers,
who helped us with that so we could quickly, uh, optimize that wedge, uh, for a quick Monte Carlo.
We could quickly tune the wedge thickness, uh, uh, wedge angle and see, you know, which range is better.
Okay. So we could make this color maps. So this is for plastic.
Uh, and this, this number here tells you the game in millions.
Okay, so the gain, of course, was crazy. We didn't never got these numbers, really, but at least could give you an indication.
Okay, so what you can see is that if the angle is low is 100 degrees, uh, of a wedge, you basically get nothing, okay.
And no changes with a thickness of a wedge.
But if you are in a sweet spot around 160, uh, degrees, then with appropriate thickness, you are in this beautiful range.
Or you can get the most, uh, means, uh, out of it.
So right around thousands of simulations, we couldn't do it for beamline. We want.
That's why we usually were using this mode. The color would be the same thing with a bottom carbide.
Okay. Now, again, you see, with a bone carbide. Uh, the nice thing is.
But you could get the optimum with far less thickness.
And that was the thing. But we want that because we were limited. So next, once we designed our wedge, uh, the parameters, we order them.
And then next thing was to think about how we should measure the things, how we should measure, uh, the the experiment.
So the wedge was sitting before the drink, and we had two data points.
One data point was of intensity of a moon beam after the wedge, but before it enters the drink.
So we could measure the intensity of immune beam there. But that was just an intensity measurement.
The critical measurement was using the calorimeter stop at G minus two,
because after the beam is doing 1000 terms, because that number would really give you the flux.
But the G minus two wand. And that's the number that you want to see to increase if this number increases.
This means what the wedge is doing things for you.
So we were using. So we're putting the wedge in the beam path.
And we're looking at these two two data points. Uh and we're basically uh say optimizing uh, our, our lattice.
This is some pictures of a experiment. So here you see, uh, the plastic wedge.
Uh, here you see, uh, the boron carbide, uh, wedge.
Uh, then we had to design a special device to bring the beam in the beam path, an actuator, uh, with submillimeter precision.
But was very important because, remember, if is way too small and you want to be sure that you are at the point where you want to be.
So, uh, here you see the plastic wedge on the actuator.
We had to build a special housing, uh, to put the wedge in here.
You see the, uh, image of a wedge. And, uh, here you see the actual housing of a wedge.
I think the beam was going this way. And this is used for the accelerator.
So the wedge was hitting somewhere here. Uh, and then also had to change, uh, some of our power supplies.
Uh, in order to tune the magnets that we needed in order to get the desired, uh, focusing effects for the wedge.
This another picture, uh, of our wedges. This is very our wedge we used, uh, this wedge was a trial wedge.
Uh, we call it, uh, for some reason that we never really understood, uh, this wedge worked, uh, much more better than this one.
It could be that the optics, uh, were a little bit different than when we actually thought, um, from the outside, of course.
Uh, you. But you cannot see anything, really. But that's that's that was.
But it was more which here one which you, uh.
And this is the first, uh, data point, uh, that we took.
We used the first the plastic wedge. And so what you see here is you see the relative wedge offset, okay.
When when you are at zero offset, this means about the tip of a wedge touches the beam center.
Okay. So if this w is very large it's about 15 -15.
Which means that you are far away from the beam. You are somewhere here. You don't touch the beam.
And if you look at this point, the intensity.
So this is the intensity before the beam enters a drink, uh, is basically untouched.
So that's why I use a scaling one. Uh, and same thing about the gain of a start means it's one.
Okay. So I scale everything with these two data points, because both are when the wedge is far away from the beam.
Now, as we go closer to the beam, as the wedge starts to touch the beam, you see two things happen.
First of all, the intensity. The total intensity goes down.
Okay. So this is again before we start a drink, but after a big wedge.
So intensity goes down. But another beautiful thing happens.
The start means increases okay. So here you see the cooling effect.
You see more means within the acceptance.
But you uh of a beam and bespeaks somewhere here.
So around 5%. So when actually w is zero.
So when half of a beam is covered by the wedge, that was optimal, after that things are going downhill.
Okay. And my theory was that was because when you have a beam change as well.
So in order to improve things further, you have to accelerate the beam before you go for the wedge.
However, because whenever you have to do something like this, we had to take beam time for G minus two and G minus two was not happy with that.
We said, okay, you know 5% is good enough for us. Please don't, uh, you know, mess up with a beam anymore.
Stop, uh. Stop protesting. So we decided, okay, we don't want we'll leave it like this, okay?
So we don't want to tune the beam more. Then we tried to do the same thing with boron carbide.
Uh, here, you have a bit more time. Uh, and, uh, also, we collected more data, uh, and you can see.
But again, the intensity goes down, as you can see here, but the stored means go up.
Okay. And the peak again near the point. What a big wedge. It's touching the beam.
And again, again things go go downhill. Uh, for.
So this was, uh, again, another experiment with a different material that showed,
uh, that showed, uh, velocity not counting and, uh, one slide before the end.
Uh, this is just a simulation versus experiment comparison.
So, uh, I had, uh, uh, had a few summer students who were helping me with it.
We wanted we knew the data from the experiment, but we wanted to do the same thing with G for beam line.
So we had we built a model of, uh, M five line of A on campus.
So we we build a model of a, a drink, and then we built a model of a wedge.
And we wanted to compare. And what was very interesting is about the agreement was actually quite impressive.
We show exactly the same trend. Uh, in in simulation has been an awesome experiment which, which actually make us, uh, very happy.
Uh, so okay. And then I would like to thank all to some people who were involved with this project I mentioned.
You see also Ben Simmons, who was here on on Monday, uh, who uh, was supported by, by this program.
But some other students as well. Uh, and we have also some very nice, uh, papers, uh, on this work.
Uh, and, but it from my side. Thank you. Thank you.
Yeah. Right up here. Okay. I'm going to go over here first and then I'll go.
Um, I was just in minor. UW Madison and so on.
Slide 17. Title production. You mentioned that culminated with, uh, removing high energy muons.
Is there a reason why you would want to do that? If it's going through the absorber and like the absorber to reduce its energy?
Anyways, you're talking about this device? Yes. So what you want to do is you want to take out the vinegar and get the particles,
because you are worried that sparklers could destroy your instrumentation and in the end, the surrounding, uh, elements of accelerator as well.
So in order to protect the components of accelerator, you want basically to remove those high momentum particles.
What was the idea and was well, I mean, remember, but at this point you have also protons as well.
You don't have only me on some pions. So that was the idea.
Um. Thank you. Um. It's perfect. While we're on slide 17, I was curious.
You mentioned that target has this soda can design and that you need to kind of, like, diffuse the, uh, impact or damage.
Equally, is there a reason for the soda can design in that regard?
Maybe. Maybe we should become clear in Bob. Start to talk about targets next thing.
But, uh, I guess I don't know if there's something to try to answer.
Yeah, sure. It was really, uh, to put it in target.
Okay. So?
So the beam cuts a cord through the target. It doesn't go through the center of the cylinder, so it cuts a cord through it, and then it rotates.
And that helps dissipate. Dissipate the heat. It's an air cooled target.
Um, and so it's really just done for that purpose. It's not the shape in particular.
Thank you. Um, so I wanted to ask about, uh, the plot on slide 2929 where you have the cooling term and the scattering length,
and you look at all these different materials, um, and, uh, the best there is lithium hydride.
And I assume that that's part of the motivation for why we're looking at lithium hydride absorbers.
Um, but then there's also talk for cooling using, um, liquid hydrogen.
How does that compare to lithium hydride in the same way?
Uh, I don't have the parameters here, but I think that's also should be high in the list here.
Uh, so they use they use this. They use the same quality factor, basically the same principle.
Okay. So that's you want basically to minimize scattering, maximize d dx.
That's why do you think they're on over here.
Oh okay. Okay. I'm hiding in the corner uh, in your, in your optimization skin.
Yeah. Sort of the optimal parameters should, you know, expected 60% gain, I believe.
And then. Yeah, experiment. It was 5%.
So I was curious what the, uh. Where where is the gap?
There is this, you know, the simulation fidelity. Is it, uh, just real life is hard.
You know what? What made the gap from 60% to 5%?
Oh, here you go. Okay, so not here, but, um, when you do the wedge, uh, shape and, uh, thickness.
Scan rate. Oh, you're talking about this one here? Yeah.
What? One has 60%. All right. So so this was a quick Monte Carlo.
We don't have any apertures. We assume, uh, no muon decays.
Uh, no collimation. Uh, the whatever comes, uh, whatever comes out of, uh, beamline goes directly to the storage ring.
Um, completing the list in real life, uh, all the quadruples we use, uh, have a very narrow aperture, so you have some losses.
Uh, and also, when the beam enters this, the storage ring itself is going through a very complicated process where you have actually the device,
what they call the inflect or, uh, what? Basically the beam has to go through material.
It has to go through very small regions where again, you have many, many losses.
So all of these things, uh, played, played into this.
So this dropped from 40% to 10% was not surprising to me.
Yeah. In any way you validated it with the G4 beamline simulation.
So yeah. You do have that. Yeah. Yeah. Basically when we did it, when I had more time and I had to have some help from students, we did.
We did very well simulation. And then we found actually what's, what's going on because there we include everything.
Hey. Uh, so on slide 2626, uh, is there any intuition for why the optimized beta is not symmetric?
Well, initially, usually, yes. Initially the design lattice is symmetric, but it was like, do we know why the optimized one the like.
Because almost all the beta function plot we've seen over the last few days after symmetry with the optimal dozen over here.
Now the optimum was symmetric here. The what is some solid curve was what what the G minus two wanted.
Right okay. But dotted line. Yeah yeah but no no no no not at all.
It's a good solid line. The solid line uh is the design which is symmetric.
So this is uh it's symmetric. Right.
But when when we started to play with optics we didn't want to change anything on the left on the right.
So we want to be very careful. But what we really wanted to do well we changed a few things.
But oh and by the way, this never really worked in real life.
But, uh, we, we wanted to adjust things, so maybe we can go to a little bit lower,
better function, uh, in both planes and then of course, create this a symmetry.
But this is not really what the G manage the experiment wanted. And perhaps this.
Why why this thing isn't didn't work so well at the end. Okay.
All right. I think with that let's thank our speaker again. Let's get up for another stretch break.
