# The Fermilab Accelerator Complex, Robert Zwaska

Thank you. Hi, folks. I'm Bob Zoosk, uh, from Fermilab. Um, I work on the present accelerator complex.
And, you know, the if the muon collider effort is successful,
there will be a future accelerator complex that has to be, um, actually operated and run.
And so that's what my talk is about today. Uh, this was this talk a very little specific to the muon collider.
Um, but it'll show you the, uh, what we have presently at Fermilab, a little bit of the history and,
uh, uh, and, and some of the practicalities of running an accelerator complex.
Okay. Oops. Okay. All right.
So I'll try doing this. Okay. So, um, our accelerators at Fermilab have run for decades, and they're now at a at a turning point.
Uh, we've been at a few of these before, but now is kind of a significant one for us.
So some decades long plans are being put into action. And, uh, we have new challenges and opportunities almost on a daily basis.
So we have, uh, what's called our long shutdown. It's approaching.
And in about 2027, um, at that time, we install two very new to two new,
very large projects, a long baseline neutrino facility and the Pipp two accelerator.
And we retire two very substantial parts of our accelerator complex, the original copper linac and the new neutrino beam.
Um, and at the same time, we integrate several improvements to the complex.
And that's what all of these, these, uh, acronyms are. At the same time, we're, uh, planning for the future.
We have R&D into accelerator physics and technology and hopefully muon collider related research becomes a larger part of that.
Um, and we're doing upgrades for new experiments and perhaps in the future, uh, a collider.
Um, so just a little bit about Fermilab in general.
So Fermilab is America's particle physics and accelerator laboratory.
We operate the largest US particle accelerator complex.
There's about 1900 staff and about $600 million per year budget, depending on how you count it.
Uh, it's a large chunk of land, 6800 acres owned by the government.
Um, and we have over 4000 users from 50 countries that use our facilities.
Uh, the the the research community is, uh, is, uh, is large for for a rather relatively small number of experiments,
but they're also broken into several additional groups. Um, so 175 universities, most of the states, um, and also, uh,
in terms of those who work pretty much at at the laboratory, there are many postdocs, graduate students and interns.
And that's in addition to the, uh, the users. Um, Fermilab also participates in, uh, a lot of experiments outside of Fermilab.
Um, I'm going to be the rest of this talk. I'll be talking about Fermilab specifically, but also, uh, Fermilab does a lot of work at CERN,
the the Sanford underground research facility in South Dakota, snow lab in Canada.
Uh, the Cerro de Lolo and Inter-American Observatory.
Uh, the where the, uh, the dark energy surveys, the South Pole Telescope, the Nova Ash River laboratory in Minnesota, and,
uh, the matter wave atomic grantee amateur interferometric sensor, which there will be a version of that at Fermilab.
Um, and but uh, turning back towards Fermilab, the Fermilab follows, uh, the P5 strategy,
P5 is a planning panel that convenes every seven, eight, nine, ten years and plans out a lot of major projects.
Um, and, and it supports our flagship projects, the LBF neutrino beam, uh, the Dune experiment, the pipe two accelerator, and the LHC at CERN.
And these will still take many years to realize.
Um, at the same time, in addition to big projects, we have a large research effort that's maintained by operations.
So this is a bird's eye view of the Fermilab accelerator complex.
The the red parts are the the primary active parts at this time or in the near future.
Uh, the green part shows our muon campus, the orange ones show our neutrino beams.
And, uh, also in this dotted line is the Tevatron, which is not presently used.
I'll talk a bit more about the Tevatron later. Um, but it played a very large part in our Fermilab's history.
And before there was even a Tevatron there, this was called the main ring.
And the main ring of is, uh, what what Fermilab started with.
Okay. So I'll walk through some of these, uh, but just to give you the idea, the beam starts right here next to our high rise, the Wilson Hall.
Uh, it starts in a in a copper linear accelerator.
Uh, gets it up to 400 MeV. Goes through a booster synchrotron.
Uh, goes through that about 20,000 times, brings its energy up to eight GV.
Then it goes through the recycler, where many batches from the booster are stored up together,
and then they're all accelerated at once through the main injector, um, to 120 GV beam.
Um, and that could go round at about another, uh, 10,000, 10,000 times or so, uh, 100,000 times.
And then, uh, and then it is extracted to the, to the, uh, new mean neutrino beam, uh, this and doing this,
the beam takes, builds up about one mega joule and energy, and the process takes just over a second.
And we do that for as much of the year as we can. Okay.
So a little bit more on the linac. So the linac is our copper accelerator.
We're now building a niobium one. Uh it actually doesn't accelerate protons.
It accelerates H minus ions. This is to be able to increase the intensity of the beam in the, uh, in the subsequent rings.
Uh, it starts from 750 kV. That's provided by a device known as a RFU radio frequency quadrupole.
And then it goes through a few different types of cavities. Uh, starting with it actually starts over there.
It goes to these blue ones and then these newer, uh, copper ones and brings it up to 400 movie in one pass.
Uh, the beam in here, it's it's, uh, bunched at 200MHz.
There are actually different RF frequencies of 200 and 800MHz and the pulse lengths about 80 microseconds.
And again, uh, this is to be retired, uh, in 2028.
Uh, the next step is our first synchrotron, our rapid single rapid cycling synchrotron called the booster.
Uh, the booster has this 400 MeV being brought in. And what happens is, as the H minus beam is brought in, it passes through a carbon foil.
The carbon foil strips off the proton that strips off the electrons and allows the protons to go around the ring.
Um, and this is presently done at 400 GB of energy as the protons go around the ring, uh, and, and come around,
we are actually able to bend the H minus beam in with the proton beam, uh, because they have the opposite charges.
So we can just merge the two beams together, then strip the electrons again and keep doing that.
Uh, over and over. Uh, we do this about 15 to 20 times right now, um, in the booster.
And it'll it'll increase to several hundred when we build our new accelerator.
Uh, this is a fast ramping machine. It has a 15Hz sinusoidal ramp to its magnets.
So they're always going up and down on a resonant circuit. Um, and the beam, uh, the beam energy increases from 0.4 GV to HCV.
And what that means is the beam speeds up, uh, noticeably during that time.
The revolution period goes from 2.77 microseconds to 1.57 microseconds.
And, uh, what that means is that the frequency has to change.
So it goes from 38MHz to 53MHz. And so you have to have cavities, uh, which can have their, uh, that which can be tuned on a rapid basis that quickly.
I won't get into how that's done. Um, but it's a very important part of the process of these machines at intermediate energies,
once they become ultra old, one relativistic like electrons do.
Uh, the frequency doesn't change anymore. But for muons, muons won't be ultra relativistic until they're in their later, uh, the later rings.
Okay, then, uh, then we you have two to larger rings in, um, in one tunnel.
The first is called the recycler. Um, and that is these green magnets up here.
It is actually a permanent magnet storage ring. Uh, so these these are not electrically, uh, electrically excited magnets.
Uh, and it stores have protons. And the advantage of that is this ring is exactly seven times as long as the booster.
And we're able to stack more protons end to end. And actually, we can do a momentum stacking as well,
such that we can take 12 extractions of the booster beam and combine them into one beam inside this recycler.
Um, then that is transferred down to the main injector that has these great big blue and red magnets.
These are electromagnets. They take it up to, um, 120 GeV and it's extracted.
You can see that each of these are made up of hundreds of magnets. Um, and what that means.
And every one of these magnets is a failure mode.
Uh, so reliability of the system as a whole depends greatly on each and every one of these individual magnets.
Um, okay. Uh, so let me let me get to the users a little bit.
So the first thing we have is what's called a booster neutrino beam. This actually uses a heavy beam directly from the booster.
It's been operating since 2002. Uh, up to about 30kW of beam is extracted inside of here.
There is a beryllium target that's inside of this large aluminum device called a focusing horn.
This is a coaxial focusing element that's used in neutrino beams.
And it. Could conceivably be used in muon beams, but at this point it is not.
In this case, what happens is a large electrical current of about 200,000 amps flows along a inner in an inner cylinder,
and then and then comes around the outside here and between the two cylinders in that annual region, it forms a nice focusing magnetic field.
It focuses in both planes, which makes it efficient for single pass beam lines like this.
Uh, we intend to keep this beam, um, operating after.
Well, at least be capable of operating after the long shutdown.
And there are presently several experiments on this line, um, that's shown here.
So there's the target, the beam line, and then there's one experiment, SB and that is our newest one.
There's Microban, which actually is turned off right now.
Um, and then there is, uh, the Icarus experiment, which has been there for a couple of years.
The high powered beam has been the Nummi facility. This is in the trenches at Main Injector.
It's been running now for about 20 years. Uh, and so it supplies this 120 GV protons roughly every 1.2 seconds.
It was designed for 400kW. It's now been operated, uh, routinely above 900kW.
And we have pushed it to one megawatt for short periods of time. Um, a very large number of neutrinos are made here.
So every pulse, which is happening almost every second produces, uh, trillions of neutrinos, um, they're directed down into the Earth,
um, so that they come out of the Earth in northern Minnesota, uh, where there was originally the Minos experiment.
And now there is the Nova experiment.
Uh, we expect this to run to 2027, at which point it'll be decommissioned as well.
Um, another experiment coming together here, which may have been discussed here is called new E, the muon two electron conversion experiment.
This is a beam to make, uh, uh, muons.
I mean, neutrinos are made at the same time, but it's to make muons and do muon experiments to it.
And it shares some, uh, superficial similarities to a muon collider target station.
Um, but some but some very large differences as well.
Uh, so presently, uh, these are showing some of the large solenoid magnets that they have for transporting the muons.
Um, but these, these have been in place for a year or so.
Uh, and just now their production solenoid where the target sits, um, it was just, well, maybe not installed,
but it was put into the, uh, the target, the target hole, um, the beamline itself is in commissioning.
It uses, uh, slow extraction. So there's an electrostatic septum system.
Uh, there's AC dipoles to clean the beam. And, uh, we're continuing to move ahead of that, and hopefully there's a physics run before a long shutdown.
Other than that, it'll certainly run after our long shutdown.
Okay, so this is how the accelerator complex then kind of looks from a cartoon point of view.
We have, uh, Orion source Linac booster.
These two rings are neutrino experiments, the muon experiments that also included the G minus two experiment that this was just talking about.
And we still do have a fixed target experimental area.
Um, and this is just to show what the decades add up to for these different beam lines.
This is the new beam line. This is the boost neutrino beam. This is the muon.
And each color on here is essentially a year's run.
And so Nummi has been operating for uh, 25 years or 20 years.
And you can see it, it had a period where it was running at about 200, 250kW,
and then a period where it's running more like 600 to 700kW, and then it's been closer running closer to a megawatt.
Uh, recently, uh, the booster neutrino beam has been pretty, uh, continuous in its capability.
Um, the only reason why it flattens out sometimes is that sometimes, uh,
the beam has to be shared with the other experiments, and, uh, and it was and it was reduced.
Um, it also did have some outages back here. Um, and then the muon uh, facility as well has been taking beam.
Some of this was to G minus two. And then the more recent beam is going to community commissioning.
Um and this is, this is a closer look at Nummi.
And so here is again the kind of accumulated energy in these units of megawatt hours here, um, that was delivered to the target.
Um, but then these blue dots show the average power. And these are all about one hour averages.
And so you can see that, you know, it started out in this range here of about 250.
And then there were consistent gains in capability. Um, so let's see I won't belabor this too much, but it was it was originally designed for 400kW.
Uh, it turned out our accelerators could only reliably provide about 250kW when the Tevatron was operating.
Um, and then we use the slip stacking and momentum stacking process to nearly double the beam power.
Uh, when the Nova experiment was put on, uh, we actually, uh, incorporated the recycler as a stacking,
uh, ring, as I, as I described earlier, that allowed up to 700kW.
Uh, there was a proton improvement plan that increased reliability and capability,
and then that allowed BNB and muon to operate simultaneously when Nova was running.
And so that that pushed, uh, the the capability to run three experiments at the same time, uh, upwards.
Otherwise, prior to that, we had enough capability for one experiment at a time, and the other ones just had to take whatever was left over.
Um, and so as intensity increases in the main injector ramps pushed us towards one megawatt,
uh, we needed to look at making our target station capable of that. Um, so we implemented what was called our new Nummi project.
We have this term called an accelerator improvement project. And so that ran for.
A few years and and really went through the entire beam line.
And I'll talk more with this beam line.
Looks like in the second in the talk this afternoon, but it really upgraded a lot of the systems to be able to, to reliably provide one megawatt.
Um, and we were shooting for something in the 25 to 2030 period.
And it looks like, yeah, that's where we're going to be. So we finished this in 2021.
We were capable of one megawatt at that point. And then the accelerator has crept closer since, um here's more.
Here's a little bit a little bit more of what we did. We had a different target design that was one megawatt capable.
We had a different horn that was one megawatt capable. We had to do, uh, new air cooling to keep all the pieces cool.
When we put one megawatt of beam power into the target facility, the vast majority of that ends up as heat and all that heat has to be removed.
Um, and it gets removed via air cooling and then raw.
That is water cooling. Um, we have to worry about how we handle that air.
Uh, we have to worry about how we move these devices in, in a radioactive and active setting.
Um, we have to take care of the environment with our condensate and, uh, you know, so on and so forth.
Um, so it was it was a large project. You can't really see it here.
But this module, above all the people, that is the the first megawatt target that was produced.
And this here is a picture of the megawatt horn being installed as well.
Okay. So we did do a test run actually about a year ago.
Um, so Addie that's our accelerator director.
It was granted an eight hour window for up to four hours of running, uh, where we could exceed one megawatt.
And, uh, you know, there's just a lot of conservatism at the time, and there still is, uh,
one of the issues we have with running an accelerator complex is summer temperatures.
A lot of our cooling of both the target stations and the, uh, the magnets in the ring themselves is all done by water,
and that heat is exchanged with ponds that are on the surface.
And during the summer, um, with all the sun in particular, those ponds can't get up to be the same temperatures we're trying to get our water to.
So there's if there's no delta T, there's no heat passing back and forth.
Uh, so, uh, we had to find a cool and calm period to avoid that.
And so it started at 4 a.m., uh, June 26th, with the next day as a backup.
Um, in the meantime, the individual machines push their capabilities to near megawatts for the few days before, um,
and then you have what you do is you have all the operations teams, uh, come in at 4 a.m.,
um, as well as the technical department personnel at the appropriate locations.
All this is spread over, you know, several kilometers of space with different,
um, with different service buildings that that maintain different systems.
And most of the time they're unattended. But if you have an expert there, you can fix a problem, uh, much more quickly.
Um, you know, this required even opening up the site early for this.
And, uh, by six 53in the morning, the machine condition stabilized to allow one megawatt of running.
And so we started the four hour period, one hour provide prior to that.
And then, uh, continued to make improvements over the next few hours and peaked at about 1.018MW over a full one hour average at 8:28 a.m.
Um, notably, uh, the other user at the time, the booster neutrino beam, it ran at full intensity at this period.
During this period. And then all of this was done by 930 when things started to warm up.
Um, sometimes something like this is is called a stunt because we can't reliably run that way.
But what it really is, is it's a demonstration. You know, there's thousands of different devices and systems that have to work together.
And every step along the way you find new problems. And, uh, many, many issues were, uh,
discovered and fixed during that period and give us a lot more information about how we're going to run in the future.
Um, then this is just pictures of what it looks like at 5 a.m. in our control room.
And this is, uh, you know, quite busy in our control room.
In fact, our operators like to turn down the lights normally.
And, you know, it kind of looks like a lounge at 4 a.m., but, uh, but here we had it up and bustling and and this is this is showing the record.
This is, uh, this is the number of protons per pulse here.
You can see there's a very suppress zero. So this is a pretty narrow range.
And this is the hourly, uh, average power. That's this blue line.
And so they they brought it up and reached their peak right about there.
Okay. Uh, mentioned a few kind of historical parts of the Fermilab accelerator complex.
So first of all, fixed target. Okay. So this is a view now from Fermilab.
This is a view from the north rated way at the edge.
There is the beginning of Wilson Hall. And this is the main ring there.
So this is prior to the main injector. And the way the beam worked at that time was the linac started here, went around the booster.
All that was the same, but there was no main injector. So the beam was directly input into the main ring.
And then and then. Was accelerated in this large ring, which, by the way, is exactly one kilometer in radius.
Uh, this would get it up to 200 GV and later 400 GV, and then it was slow extracted out in this direction.
And actually there's several beam lines underground here. And this is what Fermilab was originally built for.
Um, it wasn't built as a collider or as a long baseline neutrino beam.
It was built for these experimental facilities here. So the beam would be, uh, directed outwards into various stationary targets at these locations.
Um, as you all know, this results in large showers of particles useful for making on beams of unstable particles.
And and also, you can get quite a large number of interactions.
Uh, there there were decades of experiments done here, um, and oops, among other things.
But, uh, there was the discovery of the epsilon and the Tao neutrino in, in these, in these experiments.
Uh, so Fermilab also offered, uh, operated an antiproton source for, um, how long?
Um, about 25, 30 years. Um, this conceptually sounded sounds similar to all of our other target stations.
120 GeV protons, uh, impact a target, and you get a lot of particles out.
Well, what's different here is that you get a lot of pions out.
In fact, you usually get several pions for each proton. Um, but you really only get a very small number of antiprotons out.
It's just a much less favored interaction. Um, so, uh, collecting antiprotons is was quite challenging.
And then they also come out with a very large, um, distribution and admittance and momentum.
Uh, and, uh, to make a beam out of them requires a lot of cooling.
However, they don't decay. So that's that's the big difference between, uh, collecting antiprotons and, uh, and muons.
And so they had a process where they went around this ring called the debenture.
That's now the delivery ring that, uh, that this was referring to.
Um, and it uses a, uh, some momentum exchanges to, to, uh, to cool the antiproton distribution.
Um, and it takes about two seconds, collects the antiprotons, and then from the, the bunch of ring, they're put into the accumulator.
They're, they have the ability to merge multiple beams together and stores them up for hours or even days.
And you could get up to maybe ten to the 13 antiprotons in this.
Um, in later years, it was further stored in our recycler ring, and there was also, uh, electron cooling there.
How to further cool the beam? Uh, and and so for many years, uh, the major goal of Fermilab was to maximize the antiproton production here.
Uh, and those antiprotons, of course, were used in the Tevatron. Um, the Tevatron was the highest energy collider in the world for about 20 years.
Um, and likely it'll be the last proton antiproton high energy collider.
The LHC and all of its successors are viewed as being proton proton.
If they are Hadron Collider. Uh, so what's shown here is a picture of the old main ring tunnel.
Uh, the magnets they're working on here on top. That's actually the main ring, uh, that, that Fermilab was built with.
And then the Tevatron was built as an upgrade of it. And that's and it's actually hidden underneath the original, uh, magnets.
There was enough room down there to put them. Um, there it was, uh,
the the first large cryogenic machine uses superconducting magnets filled with liquid helium and got up to fields of about five Tesla.
Uh, and of course, it collided. Counter-rotating beams of protons and antiprotons.
Interestingly, it used a single beam to which you can do if you have if you have particles of opposite charge,
the center of momentum energy was about 1.96 TeV, which had give, uh, significantly more, uh, available energy than the fixed target did.
And it produces just about everything that produces all the quarks.
Um, the Zs, the W's, all the leptons, including neutrinos, um, even the Higgs, the Higgs was produced there.
Um, although it was not discovered there. Okay.
Um, another another accelerator facility Fermilab runs is called the Fermilab Accelerator Science and Technology Facility.
Um, and so it's shown in this map way up here. So the main accelerators are down here and this one runs separate to it.
It actually runs in an old fixed target experimental building that was upgraded um, with what's shown here is the SRF linac.
So these are ILC style, uh, cryo modules, um, up to three of them.
Uh, right now there's only one of them, but that gives them electron beams up to about 300 MeV.
And then they can be, uh, injected into this rather small, but still quite complicated.
Uh, ring. Um, this is a test accelerator, the integral integrable optics test accelerator.
It was built for a particular concept of beam optics called integral optics, which were to avoid, uh,
many of the resonances that are challenging for beams and allow you to accumulate them up to, uh, higher and higher, higher intensity.
This for many years was operating off of this electron source. Uh, right now it is being upgraded with a proton source, the iota proton injector.
And that for the first time will allow us to, uh, test protons in here, which will be very interesting for our future accelerators.
Okay, uh, now I'm getting into a bit of the future for Fermilab.
Uh, so the next big project, being an experiment at Fermilab, is doing the deep underground neutrino experiment.
Um, you've probably heard some about this. Um, I'll talk a bit about it, but not belabor too much.
It's it's it's, uh, high intensity, high power, uh, accelerator produced neutrino beam, uh, to is to a detector that is, uh, 1300 kilometers away.
This allows investigation of, uh, neutrino oscillations.
Uh, the experiment also looks at things like cosmic rays and neutrinos, I mean, a supernova and and other, uh, potential, uh, interesting sources.
Uh, the way this works is, um, from our accelerator, we will actually extract the beam and and tip it upwards.
It'll go up, um, above ground level, although it will be buried by a large amount of concrete and dirt and then bent downward.
This is the angle to South Dakota. Um, it then it hits a target at just below ground level.
And then there's a very large decay region. All this gray area is concrete.
And this inner area here is his helium. Uh, the the pions that are produced decay, and they're, uh, they create muons.
Those are all stopped. Uh, and then you and the neutrinos carry on inexorably.
It's designed originally for 1.2MW, and it's supposed to be upgradeable to 2.4MW.
And this is just to give you a closer look at it.
Um, so there's a primary beam enclosure. That's a, that's a tunnel that you would, that you would, that you would, uh,
have like accelerators and, and then it transitions into a target station,
which is a very different beast, um, held up there by these large pieces of shielding would be a baffle.
That's kind of like a column or a horn. That's one of these focusing devices with a target.
Um, and then two more horns and then transition into this decay region.
In addition to that, we have, uh, a more accelerator directed upgrade project called Pip to the proton improvement plan to,
um, and, and the idea there there is to further increase the beam power we have now from one megawatt to 1.2MW,
replace our existing linac, um, provide a path for 100 potential hundred kilowatt community to provide capability for 1.6MW at low energy 800 MeV,
um, with the continuous wave beam and uh, and be able to support multiple experiments at the same time.
Oops. Well, one uh, this is just to show where where it was, uh, where it is in Fermilab campus.
Here's the of the booster, the old main ring. There will be a linac here.
It's pretty far under construction now. And then it'll come over and it'll do a hook into the booster and inject, um,
on the opposite side of the, the, uh, synchrotron than it did previously.
Um, this also includes upgrades to the booster and to the recycler and main injector to be able to let them handle, uh, higher, higher beam powers.
So this project was started back in 2016, the second long time.
Um, we've we planned to have first beam in booster in 2029.
Um, but that kind of hides the fact that we are already starting to install here.
And the beginning of the beam in this linac will probably be in 2026 or 2027.
Uh, and then we expect 1.2MW beam on target in 2031.
Uh, yeah. I'll just jump over construction. Um, so so this gives us our mid-term accelerator plan.
Um, so I've talked through a lot of this, but let me show here is that these are years up here, 2025 to 2033 every year has a red band through it.
That's an annual maintenance shutdown that we do during the summer. There's a long shot down here.
That's the red period. But there's some areas that are turned off early, and there's some areas that don't come on until later.
And then these green bars show the different pieces of the experimental program we expect to be running at that time.
And then everything else down here. These are the projects and I've talked about before too.
And they'll be an afternoon. Those are the two big ones.
But there's still two other big projects, Acorn and UIP, that contribute to, uh, keeping this facility in good shape.
Um, one lesson that we've learned from high power beam operations,
I've shown you that we've increased the beam power on Nummi over the years, and that's that's the good news.
Here's the bad news. So here's this beam power going up.
That's that purple line. And then this red line.
This is protons on target for TDR goal. And you can see it started here.
And it went up. And then since then it's kind of fluctuated. And then this year we're actually down because of some infrastructure problems.
And so what that tells us is that even though we've been increasing our beam power by more than a factor of two,
um, we didn't we haven't produced, uh, twice as many new neutrinos per year.
Um, and that a lot of that has to do, uh, with reliability and runtime each year, both of which are large factors.
And so a lot of our present upgrades are trying to address these problems.
And here's some math on that. Uh, you know, pretty basic.
Um, but this is just to show, uh, we had, uh, quadrupole failures in our main injector, in fact, three separate ones.
And each one, each one takes two weeks out of our timeline each year running.
Um, we had a horn strip line failure in our Nummi facility.
This was something that was installed at the beginning and was never meant to be replaced.
And so it took a long time to make a brand new one and install it.
Um, the Acorn, I'll just say quickly, we had this is a large project and it's to completely replace our accelerator control system,
upgrade its hardware, upgraded software, um, make it more compatible with all of the new things like AI and ML that people want to do these days.
Um, there's a utilities infrastructure project, which is to improve the water cooling and the electrical parts of the lab.
We have to continue doing this over and over. Um, and then the next idea that people have is to perhaps replace our booster synchrotron.
Um, and, and I'll go over the history a bit of this. So back in 2014, the recommendation was to provide 2.4MW to Dune when it was complete.
Right now we're at about this 0.9MW max sustained power.
And with Pip two we'll get to 1.2MW. And then the the the bottleneck is the booster synchrotron.
And so the intensity can be improved a little bit, but it can never reach 2.4 mega megawatts by itself.
Um, by just increasing the intensity. Um, so we need something else.
Um, and, and the idea for many years was to replace the booster, and it's still an idea, but in the meantime, uh, we had other ideas.
Uh, we have something called Merc now that is main injector ramps and target tree,
which allows us to, uh, evolve, evolve the complex to get to two plus megawatts.
Maybe not 2.4, but somewhere above two without replacing the booster.
At least at first. Um, and the way this looks like is, uh, is shown by a few tasks here.
First of all, we we look at overall efficiency and reliability.
And so improve reliability by replacing parts of it by with robust design.
Uh, the next thing is machine capability. So maximize proton flux uh, through the machine.
And flux is integrated flux. And so what the way we actually do it is we make the main injector go faster.
So we reduce this 1.2 second cycle time to 0.6 seconds, nearly double the beam power.
Um, and then of course, you have to make a target station that can take that beam power.
So this is the plan that we are currently proceeding with.
Um, and that's kind of shown here getting us to two plus megawatts.
What we do after that takes us to this kind of multi megawatt regime and, and and uh,
it could involve replacing the booster, but it could involve something else as well.
Um, we expect that's something that it'll be something that builds on the accelerator complex,
enables muon collider R&D and potentially a path to the collider.
Um, it should enable a new set of experiments. These are ones beyond Dune and munity that might happen at lower energy.
Um, it should have the capability of doing muon collider R&D, including a demonstrator facility,
and it should provide a platform for the future evolution of the accelerator complex, which could conceivably be towards an actual collider someday.
Okay. Uh, so just to summarize, so, um, so accelerator operations still happening.
Uh, it enables the particle physics mission by delivering the proton beams to the science users.
Uh, we're transitioning from steady state operations to integrating the Pip two upgrade in preparation for the Dune experiment.
This is a big period of change for us. Uh, we have a campaign of upgrades, modernization, investments for making, uh.
Machines at the accelerator complex compatible with Pip two.
That includes these infrastructure projects and modernization like the Utilities Infrastructure Project and Acorn, and also the acima program.
And now we are planning and I'll say planning because it's still very early.
We're planning for future opportunities. These can be new facilities and experiments with the Pip two accelerator.
Um, because it's actually a very capable machine and will be using a very small fraction of it.
Um, we'll be continuing our accelerator complex evolution, and then we'll have test facilities and demonstrators for future machines.
Oops. And that is it. Thank you. All right.
We have a bit of time for questions. So who has questions?
So thank you for this really extensive overview. All right. So let me ask you about power consumption.
Um, a megabyte is a lot. Two megawatts is twice as much.
Uh, but Naperville, Batavia, uh, you know, uh, West Chicago, this is growing.
Um, at what point do you guys need a better source of power?
Is it at the ten megawatt? Is it at the four megawatt?
Is it? You know, there happened to have been one constructed 20 years ago, so you don't have to worry about that.
At what point you guys have to worry about this? Yeah. So it is, um, definitely a concern.
Uh, so, uh, I will say, you know, we're actually in pretty good shape for the moment.
Okay. And we're kind of blessed with, uh, northern or northeastern Illinois having a very stiff electrical grid that we're right in the middle of.
You know, the area is ringed by nuclear plants. There's lots of different types of power plants inside of it.
Um, so we do pretty well there. Um, we take electricity off the grid at the top voltage 345 kilovolts.
Um, which is pretty unique compared to labs.
That has advantages and disadvantages, because it means you need very beefy hardware to be able to do that, which has been a problem for us.
Um, it also gives us the opportunities to abuse the grid.
So, you know, one of the things we do when we, when we, uh, when we, uh, put the energy into the, the main injector,
it's something like 40 or 60 megajoules of magnetic energy that are put into the magnets of the main injector and then removed every second and just,
you know, the, the, uh, the just dissipating that energy would be very wasteful.
So what we actually do is we inverse the, uh, the the electrical voltage on the magnets.
We actually suck the magnetic energy out of the magnets. They go back through our power supplies, back onto the grid.
So every second we are shifting from taking energy off the grid and putting it back onto the grid.
Um, that means that our consumption is a few tens of megawatts right now.
We need a lot of excess transformer capability to do that, because we're taking energy on and off, and we create a lot of harmonics.
Um, but our our total installed capability, if it were fully running, is somewhere around 300MW.
Um, we we can't use 300MW because of how we use it, but we need that overhead.
I will say, though, that if you talk about something like a muon collider, the energy consumption for that is expected to be about 300MW.
So it does become a concern. Um, so a lot of, uh, facilities throughout the U.S. and like, internationally, um,
are participating in Wakefield acceleration, like CERN does a awake accelerator here as well as Stanford.
Do you see Fermilab kind of going in that direction as well or. No?
Um, well, Fermilab has a little bit of involvement in those.
Um, and has done some research with them.
Um, but, uh, you know, generally we've looked at it and, um, uh, for our, for our present purposes, uh, it doesn't play, uh, such a great role.
And, uh, and we don't have the, uh, the right facilities to do that kind of thing.
I mean, there might be some exceptions where we can do a little bit with our electron beams.
Um, but you generally need specific facilities to do something like that.
Uh, you know, one of the things with being an accelerator complex that serves users is that you are having to run continuously all the time,
which means, you know, test pulses aren't interesting, right?
You know, running 24 hours a day is what's interesting. And and so you have to look for the scalability.
Um, so so we did when we were turning off the Tevatron, we did look into the possibility of doing something similar to awake,
where we would use our one TeV, um, proton beam to try to accelerate an electron beam.
Um, and, you know, conceivably we could have done the experiment.
It would have been challenging. It would have been interesting.
It would have been expensive, but it would have never been a reasonable way to build a linear collider.
Um, the linear collider requires 30MW of beam power,
and and the electrical conversion from high power proton beams to high power electron beams is always going to be a low percentage.
And so, you know, just to create something like a, like a Higgs factory push that puts us into the multiple, hundreds of megawatts very quickly.
And so it was just, you know, on its face, you just knew it wasn't going to work.
Hi. So with all the cuts that are going on, obviously we're all very aware.
And then also a shutdown coming up.
What does a future look like for early career scientists looking to go into the workforce and looking with an interest at for me?
Okay. Um, so, uh, I'll speak more on the accelerator side.
Um, I think, you know, the a lot of the pain right now is more on the research side.
Uh, where I don't spend as much time. Um, I'd say also, historically, there's a wealth of sort of of the research that's done.
Fermilab does a comparatively small fraction of it compared to the universities.
Um, and there's also comparatively a large number of students coming in,
and there are permanent positions for on the accelerator side, it's actually completely different.
Um, we, uh, we we I mean, we don't necessarily need large armies of researchers, but we do need people who know how to make these machines run.
And, uh, we don't have enough of them. And, and that's, that's really at every level.
That's the PhD scientists. That's the bachelor's degree scientists.
That's the the engineers and the technicians. And so we're talking about workforce, um, all the time.
So we have programs for PhD scientists, but we also have um, uh, traineeships for master's students.
We have, uh, co-op programs for college students.
We have, uh, we have programs for, uh, community colleges to try to get new technicians.
And so we have workforce. We need people, actually. And that's not just Fermilab, that's other accelerator labs around the US just to follow up.
And are you able to hire people? Yeah. Uh, yeah.
Yeah. I mean, I think, um, an example would be our Acorn project that we're ramping up now.
This is a very data intensive project and very hardware intensive project, and I think we've hired seven people over the last two months.
And if you were looking to hire someone, what sort of career and education career trajectory would be good preparation?
Um, so there's a lot of different options you want me to do, like PhD specific or I think, yeah, I think that's sort of like,
uh, early PhD student, late undergrad who wanted to become an accelerator physicist at Fermilab.
What? Okay. What is the trajectory? So there are very few universities that really have programs in, um, in accelerator science.
And so Chicago does have a little bit, um, but the big ones are schools like Michigan State and Cornell.
Stanford. Um, so but most so most people don't come through large accelerator programs because they just don't exist.
Um, there is a program called the United States Particle Accelerator School that, um, undergraduate and graduate students can attend.
I highly recommend that. Um, it's, uh, going on right now on California.
We have a few hundred people there, uh, taking courses.
Um, and also for students from particle physics backgrounds, there certainly have been numerous examples of their professors,
um, allowing their students to become interested in accelerator science and coming to the labs.
And there's a few different ways to do that. Okay, then I think it's time for lunch.
Um, so the Snickers bar.
