# RF Technology, Sergey Belomestnykh

Our second lecture in this session dedicated to RF technology.
And the speaker is Sergei Bebop, mystic from Fermilab. Take it off.
Thank you. Okay, so this lecture is about RF technology.
I was told that this audience is mostly, you know, students in particle physics.
So you don't know much about RF. You probably all took a course.
Course? I took courses on electrodynamics, but specific to application of electrodynamics to accelerators, you probably not know much.
So most of this lecture will be on the basics.
And then towards the end I will tell you a little bit about challenges.
Uh, for the Ion Collider. So that's outline on the lecture.
Um hmm. Here are some basics. And we'll talk about, uh, RF cavities.
That's what we use to accelerate particles, um, in modern accelerators.
Uh, and uh, talk about the parameters which we use, how well,
the language we use to talk about, uh, RF technologies and figures of merit and then, um, uh,
compare a normal conductor and superconducting, uh,
radiofrequency systems and then RF and then color and some references if you want, uh, read more about RF technology.
Um, so um, basics again, you all know that, uh, toxoid particles we use uh, by electromagnetic field.
We use. Yeah. Lorentz force. Whoops.
So that essentially. Sort it out here.
Oh. Am too close to it. Okay, so, um, we can, um, using the Lorentz force, we can calculate how much energy.
Um. Oh, okay.
We've got this same. Kind of.
Is that better? Beautiful new clusters here.
1000.
It's a it's much more complicated than the next technology.
This is better. Oh, wow. Okay.
Okay, so let's let's, uh, imagine that we have just, uh.
Just, um, uh, g c uh, g c fields.
So some, uh, ground potential at one end, uh, and, uh, high voltage at other end.
And we place, uh, source of particles here so we can calculate how much energy the particle can gain in such a decision.
And again, listen, using this force equation, it calculates that, uh,
the energy gain is proportional to the charge of the particle times the voltage between this, uh, and high voltage to the ground.
Uh, so what what limits the energy of the particles, such as electrostatic accelerator DC accelerator.
Well, I guess I need to stay here.
Okay. Uh huh.
And it turns out the energy limit is given by the maximum possible voltage.
And this voltage is limited. So imagine that there are electrons and ions and existences.
Gap. They've been accelerated. And then they hit, uh, the wall somewhere.
And then if they can generate more electrons and ions, then we have an exponential growth of the of the current.
And this result in and aligns with the charge carriers and break down the voltage, essentially this current of electrons.
Hi, I'm still short. Um, um, the high potential, uh, to ground.
So that's that's the limit. Practical limit and maximum voltage achievable technically is about several, uh, megawatts.
And I believe, um, should have told you in the first lecture that the maximum we can achieve is DC accelerate about ten megawatts or so.
So what? What can we do instead? Uh, we can use, uh, uh, rapidly changing, uh, high frequency voltages, toxoid particles instead of electrostatic.
Uh, and this would avoid corona, because if it's high frequency and now there is not enough time for corona discharge to develop and,
uh, break it down to occur, and, um, much higher voltages are possible.
And how we can do this, we can either add voltages of several gaps, which, uh, would we have frequencies up to,
like, uh, 20 high voltages, very high frequencies or and that would give us a linear accelerator.
This suppose a gap after gap of the gap of the gap. Or we can reuse the same voltage if you can bend the particles around this magnetic field.
And this would be a good would give us a circle accelerator again.
You heard about this in the previous lectures. Of course. Uh, the particle is what?
The trick is that particles must have correct phase relation between subsequent gaps, um, to accelerate.
So, uh, when a particle enters the gaps, it should experience accelerating the voltage.
And so that when particle enters the next gap, it should experience the same accelerated voltage.
So the phase relationship is very important.
Um, the second requirement of course is we need structures.
Uh, there's little losses for efficient accelerators.
We don't want to provide, uh, power to the structures and just lose notice in, in the walls of this, uh, of the structure.
So remember, that's, um, on the first lecture again, Collider.
The, uh, power is needed for RF is, uh, beam power lost power lost in the, in the walls of the structure.
So we want to minimize this portion of that power. Um, and of course, we need high power sources to drive our, uh, like, signal structures.
So in a sense, uh, so this, uh, next, I can kind of close these, uh, high frequency voltages is, uh, somewhat equivalent to surfing.
So you have a wave moving forward, and you just, uh, sit on the wave, uh, in the same phase, and then you move forward with the wave.
So for room for for a voltage, we can, uh, plot, uh, sinusoidal wave.
And so here, that's why I have, you know, uh, sorry, positive particles.
And here maybe, uh, negative particles.
So, uh, and just one brief slide on the types we, uh, we have where we use, uh, RF acceleration, we have linear accelerators.
So it's just, uh, uh, a source of particle is in the long structure of, of, uh, many, many acceleration gaps and then a target and then uh,
and uh, this typically we use for medium, uh, if we, we have medium to large size RF systems and examples of such accelerators,
a two mile and then a normal conducting linear accelerated slack or, uh, Spallation neutron source and talk ridge National lab European lacks,
uh, X-ray free electron for ladies at oil scales to uh oh really from laser it's slug.
Uh, what we can do next, we can, uh, instead of, uh, injection injecting, uh, targets into into the target,
we can turn around the beam one time or several times, and use the same Linux several times to improve, to increase energy, um, by the number of, uh.
Number of, uh, recirculated. So those are recirculated Linux.
Typically again they are small to medium size. And that has a lot has uh uh oh to my accelerator.
It's like and uh, so it's all separate in uh CW mode.
So continuous volume what connection and typically superconducting can be all discussed while superconducting and CW operational either.
So example is the Ciba accelerator lab and it has a similar configuration except uh to Linux who is uh bending bending uh beam line in between them.
And finally circle accelerators. And those have relatively small accelerator sort of systems.
So and then the rest of the linac is uh, magnets suck the game around.
Uh, so that's small, except for high energy electron colliders, like, you know, LEP two or FCC is future sort of collider.
And there are many examples of sort of color machines. Uh, on close to us is main injector at Fermilab and Space Machine, the synchrotron at CERN,
LHC uh that collider at Brookhaven National um future electron nine Collider and Future Collider super can be the future circular colliders and many,
many light sources. Um general. So those are main uh three types of accelerator where we use, uh, radiofrequency acceleration.
Um. So uh, accelerator systems consist of several subsystems.
Example of you employ different technologies. So we have the main uh, there's the main part of the system is uh,
superconducting and normal conducting cavity where we actually accelerate particles.
But to excite the electromagnetic, uh, in those cavities, we need many subsystems to support this.
We need to generate high out of power for which we used, for example,
the vacuum tubes such as planes, drones, or we can use associate amplifiers with high power.
Then we have transmission lines which connect, uh, those closest runs to the cavities and got an interface between the transmission line and the cave.
It is called fundamental power complex. Uh, specialized device.
Very complicated. It's maybe less complicated to answer questions themselves.
And, um, low level RF systems, uh, they maintain stability of, uh, voltage, you know, phase number two,
the voltages and cavities and allow us to synchronize several radio frequency systems.
Uh, each has a slew. So the subsequent cavities will have, correct, uh, relationships.
And so we can accelerate particles in the linac, for example.
And then, okay, radio should be tuned to the same frequencies.
So they have frequency tuners and many other subsystems.
So vacuum instrumentation cryogenics or superconducting.
So all these constitute uh not RF system.
And of course in this lecture we don't have time for for all of this.
So we'll concentrate on just accelerating cavities.
So what uh, RFK um, so what we need is to create an isolated electric field, um, topological trajectory.
And as you know from electrodynamics, the simplest way is to use LC circuit.
So you have a capacitor, you have an inductor, and then it's LC circuits which you could isolated.
Particular frequency is determined by inductance and capacitance.
So uh, again to accelerate particles we need to uh to drill a hole through the capacitor.
And here you are. You can x y particles in the structural axis.
Uh. So these, uh, structures typically are at a low frequency and they are not very efficient.
Uh, they there's a lot of, uh, I don't like doing a lot of power lost in the structure itself and, uh, less power available for tasks.
I mean, additionally, this structure is not enclosed, and we, you know, that we need the vacuum to accelerate particles, uh, so we don't lose them.
So we need to enclose the structure in a, in a vacuum vessel.
Uh, maybe the structure can be build itself in a vacuum vessel.
Uh, so we can do this, for example, to provide a ceramic braid in between the capacitance plate, uh, or, uh,
here is an example of superconducting exclusion structure, which is very similar to what's shown here in this cartoon.
And it is enclosed in a vacuum vessel. Again, as I said, the structures are not very efficient.
And, uh, we want to do something to make them more efficient.
And also we typically want higher frequencies and structures can provide.
So, um, we, uh, use resonators.
And here this cartoon shows you how we can proceed from a simple LC circuit and create an accelerating cavity resonator.
Again. First, again, we start with S instead of many.
Uh, you know, it's just instead of, uh, very complicated inductance, you can have just inductance consistent of one, one turn.
This will bring, uh, frequency up. If you remember, frequency is inversely proportional to the square root of L.
Uh, then we can link several of these, uh, inductors in parallel, further reducing inductance and then make them make it in, uh, continuous wool.
So that will have the steroidal, uh, structure.
And then we can uh, um, modify the structure.
So create a so-called pillbox here.
So it's, uh, around and in cross-section, uh, perpendicular to the beam and open the, uh, beam five so the beam can pass through.
So that's that's would be exciting. There's no computer citing Covid yet.
So, uh, the simple, uh, circuits and the they have common aspects energy stored in electric and magnetic
field and is periodically exchanged between electric and magnetic field.
It oscillates between electric and magnetic field. So result if you don't have any external input to provide additional power to the cavity,
and stored energy eventually will dissipate, turn into heat, and dissipate into cavity walls.
These constitute, uh, RF losses.
Or if it's it's got some ports or it's not completely closed of and then you can drag it out of um, the cavity and also will be lost.
Lost acceleration. So, uh, another way to look at how we create cavity resonators is to have, uh, uh, a piece of, uh,
of a waveguide or a transmission line and, uh, close it so we can, uh, we have, uh, a closed structure and closed, um.
So, uh, so this, this, uh, structure sort of cave.
It is they have, uh, um, extremely low losses and compared to, you know,
alarm circuit alarm policy circuits and, uh, um, the quality of, uh, factor of this we'll talk about later.
What was quality factor is quality factor is typically of the order of 10,000 compared to a few hundreds for alarm circuits.
Again, as I said, we can authority. We can make okay with you as a closed sectional favorite.
Okay, Alina, here are some examples. So we have around the waveguide just a piece of pipe.
And then close it is to uh, and plates of course provide some uh,
some way for them to pass through this would create a cylindrical or they call it pillbox cavity and operating in TMS 010.
And what we we'll talk about different Hortons activity and in the next slides or we can have a rectangular waveguide.
Again I put uh, a couple of wolf's uh, metal walls, uh, one closet and that would be rectangular.
Okay. There is on the heater. Or alternatively, uh, we can use show line.
And so the this, uh, red arrow shows how it where the beam is.
So, so this kind of just so that could be, uh, this, uh, one with short line and both ends.
A maximum electric field will be in the middle. And that way we can accelerate particles, or we can use a quantum wave resonator.
So that means at one end of our Channel Islands shorted the other an open.
And then the excite particles. Is it here or here.
That's where electric in the gap electric field is maximum.
Um, so if for some reason we need very wide, uh, frequency range, we can, as I believe, um, uh,
what was showed in the previous, not previously, before the line in the lecture, uh, we used here, I loaded cavities.
Uh, here I would provide hazard means to change the cavity frequency.
What? The current does it, uh, it's part of inductance.
Um, part of magnetic circuit of the cavity. And if you if you magnetize ferrite, it will will change the, uh, permeability of the material,
and then we change the inductance, and then as a result, the frequency you will change.
Okay. And uh, again, electromagnetic energy, uh, is lost in intervals of security.
Or if you have any, uh, material shielding.
Yeah. Part of the curves are right there going to be additional losses due to the loss of materials.
Uh, and to create a structure like this, steel, uh, should be made to allow evacuation.
So you need, uh, vacuum inside of it, and then we just can make, uh, strong enough to, uh, to extend the load from the vacuum inside.
So let's, uh, talk about the fuel boxes. Uh, the simplest structure, which is easier to analyze analytically, and it's actually symmetric around 1OLZ.
So that's why we want, uh uh, uh, beam to go through the cavity so we can solve electromagnetic wave equation,
uh, with boundary conditions such that electric field is always a good indicator.
Uh, and to the, to the, uh, walls of the cavity and magnetic field and the walls is always tangential.
Um, that's for perfectly conducting walls.
And it turns out when we solve this, this equation, that there are infinite number of solutions.
Uh, these it calls them and I might call them eigen modes.
And they belong to two families of, uh, modes, uh, which have different distribution of, uh, electromagnetic fields inside and eigen frequencies.
So those two families, uh, transverse electric modes, those in those modes.
There is no legit, you know, uh, component of electric field, nor easy or, uh, transverse magnetic modes, which you have.
Uh huh. Uh, so the electric field here in GM on the transverse to uh, trucks and Z and in two modes.
Uh, magnetic field doesn't have longitudinal component, and all magnetic field components are transverse, uh, relative to Z.
And I got it because you have you have, uh, I have infinite, uh, number of solutions.
We classify them, uh, according to number of variation.
Uh, the electromagnetic field, uh, can have, uh, along, uh, those three, uh, three,
uh, three axes we have in because it's gill box, it's in cylindrical geometry.
We use cylindrical coordinates, uh, phi, r and Z.
And accordingly, for each uh coordinate, we can assign the number of variation of length of electric magnetic field L have.
And those variations, number of variations we, uh, we use for this, we use integer indices, um and p.
So in this case it's, uh fundamental mod TM 010.
You can see that there is no TM means that there is no all integer, no component of magnetic field.
Uh, zero means there is no variation on phi.
You can see the field is uniform. Uh, one variation on radius.
So you can see that, uh, electric field is maximal here and zero at the cylindrical wall and zero variation along Z.
So there is no change of of the field along this direction.
That's only fundamental one which we'll talk about in a bit later.
Um, so, uh, for torque particles, of course, we need, uh, the more to have, uh, electric field along, uh, axis where a particle is traveling.
Uh, Z and this, this means that only two modes can be used for particle accelerators.
I got, as I just told you, TM 011010 mod.
This is one excuse for the field cavity is, uh, usually the lowest frequency mode.
And we call it fundamental mode because it's low frequency.
Lowest frequency. And that's what we use for acceleration.
All other modes are called an accelerator and accelerators.
It's parasitic although it's also a very high frequencies their high order modes.
So the complete eigen modes can be described uh, as this formulas again for GM modes and electric field has when we have all three components.
But magnetic field only has radial and phi components.
Uh, the wavelengths result wavelengths described by this formula where nu um and is als root of the metal funtion uh uh g amp.
Alright, so there are some first roots of the metal factors.
And here, uh, some um. Field distributions for several of the higher order moments, as Tim was here.
And this one I team was shown here. Uh, so this is electric field and this magnetic field lines.
So we are interested in this lecture at least two particles and.
And uh, fundamental laws that some more to use to accelerate them.
So fundamental mode actually it's, it's much simpler.
So you have only two, two components of electromagnetic field on a z component of electric field,
maximum in the center and zero in the cylindrical walls and uh phi component of magnetic field.
So it's um, so this is electric field concentrated near the axis.
And magnetic field is zero on the axis. And uh, um, you know, maximum, uh, on the cylindrical electric and the maximum is slightly off.
And that's where the maximum of Bessel function of the first order is.
Think that's that's a field distribution. Uh, we characterize, uh, the cavities.
Okay. In this case it is a 90s, but by its radius and and its length.
So, uh, you know what we use for the use in the example cylindrical cavity units.
That's now look and understand what parameters we and we use uh to describe efficiency of the cavity or.
Other properties. So the first uh we want to understand how much acceleration you can get in one uh, and one okay.
So the maximum acceleration is one, uh, beam is going along axis.
And it's, uh, you know, adjusted charge of the particle times acceleration voltage and acceleration voltage to to get that,
we need to integrate, uh, electric electric field I want to carry from zero to g here.
So because, uh, the electromagnetic electric field is escalating, it's not simply the just integral of electric field.
You have to take into account, uh, time dependance.
And as a result, you you'll get that it's, uh, um, again charged as a particle, but, uh, amplitude of electric field times,
uh, the length of the cavity and times, uh, certain coefficients, which are called a transit time factor.
So that's, that's what define, uh, looks the voltage of the cavity v c is equal to E, you know, g times transit time factor.
Um, because of time factor S history.
Uh, I see from this for uh, from this formula is simply this portion of the formula.
And it is maximum when, uh, uh, it is maximum when the length of security is equal to,
but lambda over two or in other words, that means that, uh, it takes particle to uh,
if, if you neglect the change of the particle energy, it takes particle, uh, half a period to cross, uh, the accelerating that that's the maximum.
So that means that we integrate it half of, uh, of the period of, of the sinusoid.
If he, if, uh, the lens is shorter, then we'll integrate less.
If the lens is a bit longer, then we will start to lose, uh, acceleration.
So that's optimal lens for security.
I got better is, uh, velocity lambda over two is, uh, lambda is, uh, a wavelength of present wavelength was a good.
So the maximum positive factor is two over five for cylinder capacity.
And then accelerating gradient we defined simply as uh.
Uh okay. With you altered voltage divided by two lines.
And it's uh, two over pi times the maximum of electric field sampling in the electric field.
So that's all good for cylindrical cavity.
As soon as we start to modify the shapes of the quality, you may find that the lens maybe slightly different,
and especially as this is for single cell cavities as it can.
And we'll see that with these when we open the, uh, the beam pipes, it's the electric field starts to propagate into big pipes.
And then we'll start to wonder what is the actual the cage.
Right. So to make it simple, we always assume that the optimal curvature lens is better lambda vector regardless of the shape.
That's optimal lens fluctuating. So now let's talk about, uh, Lois's insecurities.
Mhm hmm. Sorry.
Okay. It is, uh, made of materials, not ideal materials and materials is a fine activity, typically copper, so that we can apply Ohm's law.
Uh, and because they have finite conductivity, that means that, uh,
the fields have to penetrate inside the material and, uh, an exponential decay inside the material.
And then you have for the field, for example, for magnetic fields,
this formula that you can see that indicates exponentially with the characteristic lens delta, which is known as a skin depth.
You probably remember this from, uh, electrodynamic course.
And that's a formula for the skin depth, which is the square root of, uh, two divided by omega.
Uh, mu and sigma is, uh, um, conductivity of the material.
And um, it is proportional, inversely proportional to square root of omega.
That's it's important. Uh, how, uh, surface resistance are related to power losses.
We can. Uh, we can look at electric field and kind of density, and they behave the same as magnetic fields.
They also decay, uh, over that distance, uh, skin depth.
And, uh, then the surface impedance can be, uh, uh, we can define the surface impedance as ratio of electric field to magnetic field.
And if you take into account, uh, uh, the penetration depth, it turns out that's a surface impedance.
That's uh, that's impedance of uh, of a square of a unit length and unit width and the, and the thickness of, uh, skin depth.
It turns out, uh, um, uh, that this, uh, surface impedance is one over sigma delta.
What is the what is useful parameter?
If you want to calculate losses per unit area, then we simply multiply uh, surface impedance by square of the magnetic field in this area.
And one one half because of its isolated field.
And this will give us losses. Then if you want to calculate the total losses we just integrate over the whole surface for security.
And this is a total loss. And if surface impedance is not is constant then we can take it out of the integral.
And it's simply one half of the surface impedance times the integral of magnetic field over the whole surface.
Okay. So that's how simple it is to calculate if you know, and distribution of uh analytic field only in the case.
So then the quality factor. So characterize how good is curvature.
How how much how concretely till it lose.
Uh um uh energy. Uh, we use uh uh um, the figure of mind.
It's called quality factor. It's just a ratio of, uh, a store of energy in the cavity to the total loss in the cavity walls.
And, um, turns out it's, uh, it's two pi.
Uh, um, and, uh, it's done by storing energy to energy loss per cycle.
That's that's a quality factor or, um, it's it's a frequency.
Uh, give it a frequency times, uh, the decay time of the original.
And foreclosure. Fox has determined voice memos, material properties, and the geometry of the character.
So. And now, uh, a sort of villager would decay exponentially with, uh, uh, I means, uh, I have constant power,
which is which can be found from this, from this, uh, for normal conducting cavities.
Uh, turns out that a quality factor of ten to the for and for superconducting cavities is at two Kelvin, is of the factor of ten to the ten.
So it's a factor of six orders of magnitude difference between those.
So how much time they have. About ten ten minutes.
Okay. Okay. Uh, um, so we can, uh now play is this parameters and it define several other factors.
Uh, the quality factor I got is omega, uh, times, um, sort of energy divided by my losses.
And it is, um, it is, um, omega, uh, just for the energy in the form of energy,
it's essentially integral over the volume of the cavity and the power loss you have integral over the surface of the cavity.
And, um, so we can we can notice that all of this, except the surface impedance is uh, certain coefficients, which depends only on the cavity shape.
It does depend on the material. It doesn't depend on the dimensions of the coverage only in the curvature shape.
And we can define all these as the geometry factor here.
Uh, and it's very convenient because if you know the clearly the shape regardless of which frequency, okay, this has the same geometry factors.
Now when you turn on the surface, uh, resistance to calculate the quality factor of the gauge.
And it's useful to compare, uh, performance of different character shapes.
So for our field box created geometry factors 257 um.
And um, for components, for example, 1.5GHz, we have, you know, the connectivity of copper, uh,
skin depths and just frequencies of 1.7 microns, and you'll get surface resistance of ten minimums or quality factor of 25,700.
Got his order of 10 to 4. Um, another way, uh, to play is, uh, power.
And the cavity voltage is to define the so-called shunt impedance.
Uh, the shunt impedance is, uh. Correct.
Correct. Uh, connecting to the cavity voltage and power and shunt impedance.
And now also the definitions in square of the cavity voltage divided by power.
Lawson. In the cavity walls. Uh, you can note that this accelerator definition is different from typical short circuit definition.
And, um, yeah, you probably was given in the lectures on electromagnetics, um, the by a factor of two.
For some reason, accelerators we use slightly different, um, definition of this.
And in linac you also can frequently encounter a different definition a shunt impedance per unit length which would be exciting.
Gradient square divided by power dissipation pushing it less.
And then in this lecture we just use this short impedance. Uh another important quantity is a shunt impedance.
If you divide shunt impedance with a quality factor you you'll get uh this formula and it turns out this again this
another parameter which depends only on the cavity shapes and doesn't depend on the surface resistance and gave it a size.
Why is this parameter as important is because when we want to calculate, uh,
beam interaction with the cavity, that's where these parameters, uh, come into play.
One for the pillbox cavity are, which is about 296.
Okay, so now we can look at how the power of normal conducting activities depends on the frequency.
Uh. Mhm. Mhm. Uh I'm gonna skip this.
So for normal conductors as we uh mentioned uh surface resistance is proportional uh under square root of the frequency.
And uh, because of this is a power uh, unit length would scale like in the universe of square root of frequency and power per,
uh, unit area would scale as a new and square root of frequency.
So, uh, it looks like for normal contacting carriers, they would, uh,
prefer they would favor higher frequency and normal contact, which is high frequencies can, uh, reach gradients of.
But above I think about a meter but is very short.
Passes insult inquiries in normal conduct.
Okay. We just I put it on the I put it a low voltage just because they are limited by power dissipation.
Okay. Visuals. And uh again you can when you open the beam five and you'll lose some in uh power losses.
But you can play is optimizing the curvature geometries. And this is typical okay.
To determine the geometry for a normal conductor okay.
Which is if you compare, uh, this for CEC, for atom factory, K for coal factory, this field box,
you can see that uh, parameters are slightly better, but not much wavy, but 12% better.
That's that's all you can achieve, uh, is, uh, careful optimization.
And so that means that the simple pillbox cavity is a good, a good reference for normal conducting cavities.
Here's a photograph of another similar shape cavity.
Whether it's a photograph, how it looks outside that this luck be factor cavity.
Uh, then um, you can if the total power is constant and you want to, uh, gain efficiency, you can divide instead of one k with a cell,
you can divide power in your cells and you gain, uh, square root of n as a result according to this formula.
Um, and instead of using individual cells, you can then combine them into a simple one structure.
I mean, you would have not individual, uh, input power, uh, couplings, but one power coupler.
And just this way, uh, um, you gain efficiency and you,
you don't you don't get very much complexity in the individual cells and individual power couplers.
So this would be a standard structure. Okay.
Have not have much time so quickly about superconductivity.
Superconductivity as you know, has this uh,
resistivity uh zero below critical temperature superconductors are characterized by critical magnetic field.
And for type one superconductors. For type two superconductors are two critical magnetic fields.
And between these two critical magnetic fields they exist so-called vortex state.
That's where superconducting magnets operate. Uh, but we don't we cannot use this for RF frequencies because, uh,
normal conducting vortices will create significant losses when you change, uh, start changing, uh, electromagnetic field.
Uh, then we're going to field doesn't stop abruptly, abruptly on the surface.
It penetrates in the material, but not with the skin depth.
But there is so-called London penetration depth, which is about 20 to 15m, depending on, uh, on the material, uh,
in normal conducting cavities, uh, electrons, I couldn't guarantee scatter, uh, um, of impurities, siliceous vibrations.
And that creates resistivity in superconducting states.
Well, uh, cool. Superconductor to certain temperature.
Uh, the liquid suppression calmed down.
Uh, and then when electron passes, uh, so the lattice, it creates a positive way waiting the kind behind it and which attracts a second electron.
And that's a copper pair copper virus boson.
You know, what else can we can, uh, can cool down into, uh, Mozart and Einstein condensate.
And that's where the supercontinent would, uh, would exist, uh, again, between,
uh, critical temperature and absolute zero, there will be a mixture of,
uh, copper pass and normal electrons, but copper pairs with just this DC field, they would just shunt, uh, normal conducting electrons.
And all current is carried by supercar superconducting carriers.
Okay. Uh, if you apply AC field.
And then, uh, um, just want to explain why when we apply AC field, there is resistivity resistance to the why it is that the carriers,
they have, uh, that kind of lazy, they have inertia so they cannot turn around instantly.
So while the 200 round magnetic field penetrates and then, uh, electrons,
normal conducting electrons start occurring in some of electric field, that's.
And then we have resistance. You know, that's that's a simple explanation.
Uh, so I guess. So let's skip this.
Uh, surface resistance of superconductors is proportional to frequency.
Square depends on the temperature exponentially.
And here is a simple formula for niobium. There is no material in this we use for superconducting cavities.
But also unlike normal conduction case surface resistance also depends on other field.
And this comparison of thermal conductor and superconducting cavities.
You can see that our per unit lands proportional to omega to the frequency uh.
Uh union area is proportional to square.
So that's why superconducting cavities operate preferred at lower frequencies and normal conducting typically at higher frequencies.
I'm gonna skip this. Uh, um, is sort of more efficient than normal conducting.
Indeed, in many cases it is, uh, we can calculate how much power,
a total power we need for normal complications and how much power in it for superconducting activities.
We don't have practical losses, but we need to cool down to K, which is that additional power from cryogenic system.
And that's again, the problem, which is, uh,
prepared for this course is about exactly about this to show you that superconducting is more, uh, more efficient.
I got this. You can probably. That's why niobium.
Niobium is, uh, the best material for superconducting cavities so far.
I'm gonna. I will skip this. Some difficulties.
Uh, we need to shield cages from magnetic field.
The magnetic field around K is shrinking less than Millhouse.
Otherwise, there are additional losses. And, uh, performance really depends on tiny surface area about 100m.
Okay, that's how we characterize superconducting cavities.
That's a Q quality factor versus electric field, again, because the surface resistance depends on this.
That's typical. I got um, I would like a couple of slides.
Um, I mean um Collider, that's why I had the results.
Uh, so here is uh, the standard layout is shown everywhere modeling about the muon collider.
And you can see RF systems everywhere, uh, in red that show normal conduct in other systems, in blue, uh, superconducting systems,
in short, normal conducting RF systems, I will be used for capturing coolant and cooling of the muon and superconducting for acceleration.
So at this point. And other systems that so normal conduct not have systems parameters.
Uh, so far, uh, the experiments during the era uh,
where several creatures who created the experiments carried out the Maxwell field so far is 50 megabit per meter.
Uh hmm. And they kind of make a catch on the magnetic field of three Tesla.
But, um. Hmm. Because, uh, we need to operate, uh, this is a much higher magnetic field.
They still need to, uh, to test. It is 50km above number, but we need to identify the best material for security window to avoid breakdown.
And proves that we can, uh, achieve this at 10 to 15 Tesla magnetic field.
That's the most critical part for ionization cooling.
Again, we really, um, nobody wants to interact with beryllium because the toxic source of aluminum may be a good substitution of a bitter.
Um, I think more experiments are needed. So in this show that aluminum is slightly better in simulations.
Um hum. For accelerators that are superconducting systems, uh, at low frequency in, uh,
recirculating Linux at higher frequency for, uh, rapid second spin controls.
Uh, yep. Uh, so far we need to improve performance of low frequency.
Is because they are not in the gradient, which we need. Uh, so higher frequencies.
Okay. It's 50 megabit per meter, but, uh, they have to operate close to high magnetic field.
So here is a list of challenges which we prepared recently for European studies.
Uh, and you can see that, uh, in particular, we need to, um, to consider if there's a right frequency for the,
for the cavities, because high pressure may be not sufficient. Uh,
we need to demonstrate high gradient for low frequency cavities and how
superconducting cavities can be shielded for a very strong strain magnetic field.
Okay, here's some material for further reading.
And I think that's all. Sorry it took longer.
No. It's okay. Thank you very much. That was very useful.
We're a little bit behind, but let's take a couple questions. It's like everybody's eager to this one.
In this, everybody is eager to get caffeinated. On your summary slide, you mentioned, uh,
carriers might be made of niobium slash copper or is that a combination of some niobium, some copper or, uh, choose one.
What? Uh, so this is copper.
Copper cavity recorded inside this thin layer of film.
All right. So it is for electromagnetic field.
Now it's niobium. And superconducting copper is used to reduce the cost of the cavity.
Right. Because niobium is quite expensive. Um, yeah.
Maybe. Um, the suggestion is we take it to the coffee break and Sergei is around during at least, uh, the next few hours.
So hopefully you can ask him some questions. And, uh, also during the homework session.
Thank you again.
