# Magnet Technology, Karie Badgley

The. Okay. You remember before?
Yeah, whatever. I don't care who hates me at this point.
It looks like an hour and a half for me this morning and now 20 for me.
It took me a strange way. All the way down and 57 up. No, because I was stuck.
Okay. Well, okay, so we're getting to the final stretch.
We have two more lectures to go. And, uh, our last, uh, lecture on technology is from Kerry Bagley, and that's on the Magna technology.
And as you guys know, magnets are very central to the whole entire complex of the mill and collider accelerator.
So with that, I'll pass it to Kerry wastegate. Okay.
Thank you. Um, so again, yes, I'm Kerry Bagley.
I'm a scientist at Fermilab.
Uh, when I first started Fermilab, I, I've, um, I guess I should say I've been on, on muons and magnets kind of the whole time.
So I was on G minus two as my postdoc now working on the magnets there.
And since then I've been on mute. So doing the, uh, solenoids for mute.
And right now I'm the kind of the second in command for the solenoids.
And then I've also been, um, doing a lot of kind of magnet testing and measurements.
So I'm also the head of the, uh, test and instrumentation department inside the Magnet Department, uh, at Fermilab.
So it's kind of my, my background, and I, um, I was asked to give this magnet technology talk,
and I started putting way too much into this magnet technology talk.
So then I decided, now I'm going to I'm going to step back. So I pulled a lot out of it.
So hopefully this will be kind of a a kind of calm evening talk to, to go into your homework and dinner time.
So as you can see very simple outline. So we're going to do some magnet basics, talk about some conductors.
And then a little bit on the muon collider magnet needs.
Uh there are actually two talks on Friday on the muon collider magnets.
So if you know I don't go in deep enough here, you're going to get a lot more of that, um, on Friday.
So. Okay, so magnet basics.
Uh, you heard in the last talk, and I'm sure from undergrad classes, um, about the Lorentz force.
So anytime we have a charged particle moving in electric or magnetic field, we're going to feel a force.
So we can I think there's a laser pointer here so we can have, um Lorentz force where we don't have any magnetic field.
And we can get some deflection of, of a charged particle with just an E field.
But as soon as that charged particles up at relativistic speeds, we would need huge, um,
electric fields on the order of 3/10 of the 8 volt/m in order to get the same bending that we could get with a one Tesla magnet.
So that's why we we don't really use, um, the electric field to do the bending that we need.
So instead we,
we look at the case where we don't have an electric field and we're just using the force due to the charge or due to the magnetic field.
Um, this, uh, this or this force, sorry, is always perpendicular to the motion of this charged particle.
So this force never does any work on the magnet or on the charged particle.
Sorry. Uh, so I have a lot of friends in SRF, uh, who tease me because their system actually does works.
They say that I actually don't do any work being in magnets.
So you, um, heard also previously about this magnetic rigidity?
Uh, so you can derive that directly from this, uh, from this equation, if you just put in, you know, equals mass times centripetal acceleration,
you can get this, you know, this magnetic field,
the radius equaling the momentum over the charge and the momentum that you want is as high as possible.
Typically, uh, for these colliders and the charge you can't change.
So it gives you these two knobs, the b-field and the radius. And uh, you can keep increasing the radius, uh, at an expense.
Or you can keep, uh, increasing the magnetic field at an expense or until you reach kind of your, um, your limit with technology.
And that's for for circular colliders. So I mentioned this one Tesla field.
Uh, in magnets, we talk about things in Tesla. Um, you know, other other groups might talk about things in Gauss.
So Tesla is 10,000 gauss. And just for some, uh, reference here.
So the Earth's magnetic field is, is just like micro Tesla strength of a fridge magnet,
about 5 million Tesla, um, MRI, 1.5 to 3 Tesla, uh, strength used to levitate a frog.
16 Tesla. If you guys haven't googled this video, it's fun to watch.
Floats around. Um, strongest pulsed magnetic field obtained in a lab that destroyed the equipment, but not the lab.
So in Tokyo, they actually imploded. This magnets create a really, uh, high magnetic field.
And then the one below that was the strongest magnetic field ever obtained that destroyed both the equipment and the building.
So that's all right. So an order to create these, uh, magnetic fields, we need some kind of conductor, uh,
so you can have things that are, um, iron dominated magnets where you have a conductor,
but then there's also this iron yolk around there, and that iron yolk profile, uh, shapes, uh, the field, it can be just coil dominated.
So the placement of the coils is what produces the magnetic field.
Or you can have a combination of both. I'm actually lying a little bit.
You can also have magnets that are produced by um just permanent magnets.
So you can have an array of permanent magnets. I'm not going to talk about those here but that is another option.
Okay. So what kind of magnets can we produce.
So again you've already seen these throughout the week but sorry you're going to go through them again so we can have um something called a dipole.
That's just the two poles right. Di um and that's used for bending in one plane and uh, things like energy selection.
So if you want to, you know, get rid of certain energy, you can put it through a dipole like that out.
So this produces a constant magnetic field again in one plane.
So here it's in the why. You could have it just in the X as well on the other direction.
And you can produce this dipole field in so many different configurations.
So here's a case that's called the window frame. So this red is the conductor.
So the cable coming out and then going back in kind of in a in a racetrack fashion.
Um a problem with this is if you want to send your beam through here and you have these coils coming out, you're going to hit the hit the coils.
So you have to do something tricky on the ends. Uh, in this configuration, you have to kind of flare up your ends to go around.
So the beam pipe gets in there, you can have a, uh h so that's just this H dipole and that's the same as this,
but instead you kind of recess the coils up so you don't have to deal with that. Um, with that in effect.
So this is, you know, just a simple racetrack or pancake coil, you can have a C dipole.
So again, this is iron that's shaping it with the help of these, uh, with these coils.
And this is actually the coil structure that's used for the muon g minus two magnet.
I think that this maybe mentioned that earlier just for the scale of.
This. Those are people standing there just so you can see how big that that big magnet is.
So then you can have, um, uh, other options such as the cosine theta.
So here the current density, um, is kind of takes this cosine theta shape.
So it's highest in the middle and then tapers off to zero. And that's been used for quite some time in accelerator magnets.
So here's the Tevatron. Let's see uh LHC so these are the kind of coil layouts for those cosine theta magnets.
And you can even do more exotic things like a canted cosine theta.
So in this you make, uh, two windings.
So you, you have these two windings, one going this way, one going the other direction,
and they create a magnetic field that's slightly canted like this.
But when you add those up, the component in X here cancels out.
And you just get that dipole field in the middle. Okay, so are there other types that are common?
Are the quadrupole magnet just meaning for pole. Um, so here we have a magnetic field that's going to, um, increase with uh distance from the center.
So you have this gradient, it's called of the um, of the wider pole.
That's just a constant. And then this X is just your position along the, along the plane and with, uh, with this whole point of this is focusing.
So I think you guys saw, you know, you can only focus in one direction with the quadrupole and, and defocus is in the other.
And then you got to flip it and try to do, you know, some tricks with the optics to get this to focus.
Um, overall you can set up some interesting.
So here's kind of a more traditional looking quadrupole, these little uh, shapes here.
But you can also think do things like this Panofsky quad where you just have the currents, um, kind of just in sheets along the wall.
But again, you can have to deal with your, um, your conductor somehow.
Right? So you have to flare that out. So here's this one's a little bit hard to see,
but this is conductor that then flares out in a very elaborate way to get, uh, to make room for that beam pipe.
And then similar to the cosine theta for the dipole, you have the cosine two theta for the quadrupole.
So that's pretty standard. Um, looking accelerator magnets there.
Oops. Um, and then you can keep going.
Right. So you can go to higher order. So you can have a second of all that six poles.
And this is um where the field varies, uh, quadratically from the center instead of a linear, uh, like in the, uh, quadrupole.
And this is used to correct kind of the, the beam edges. So it has more of an effect on the beam that's out of the edge.
Uh, you can do octo poles, eight poles even higher.
The deca poles. I don't know why. Uh, actually, we do this, but that's an option.
Um, and then another important magnet for, uh, for the muon collider is solenoids.
Right? So, uh, we all learned in undergrad that your, uh,
field an an infinitely long solenoid is just this nice mu not number of turns per length times current,
which is great if we could make an infinitely long solenoid, but we can't.
So our solenoids always have these kind of curved fields.
And in defects we can do some tricks, uh, with the conductor to try to minimize that.
But but overall that's still going to be the case. And we're going to have some thickness here.
So for uh, for us we're going to say that the b-field on the axis is actually given by this equation, which is uh, the current density.
This is the thickness of your overall conductor. And then this kind of function that goes somewhere between 0.1 and 1.
So don't worry about that too much. Just typically about 0.8 okay.
So I want to point out that this is the B on the axis.
That is usually the B that we're designing the, you know, the solenoid for.
But that's not the B that the coils are going to see. Right.
The coils actually see a higher magnetic field. Um, and so that's when we're looking at, uh, the effects on the conductor.
That's important because that's the B field that we have to worry about.
And I guess I didn't point that out, but that's the case for the quadrupole in the dipoles too, right.
You you aim for a field in the middle. But then what the conductor sees is actually higher.
Okay. Continuing on. So um, we can have other types again combine function magnets.
So this is where you take some combination of the previous one.
So you can have a dipole and a quadrupole combined into one magnet which helps um bend and focus in one direction as you go, um, around the ring.
And uh, I just want to point out that the Fermi logo is actually a combined function magnet.
Right. So here's our dipole, these two bars here and then our little quad.
So all right. And then you can again this this keep going.
You can have more and more exotic magnets. So here's an example of a character magnet at Fermilab.
So it has all these windings. And you can power them in different orientations to produce random uh, magnet configurations to,
to cancel out, um, imperfections in your magnet, uh, upstream of that.
Okay. So any questions? I guess I've been encouraged.
Ask questions along the way. Yes. Why do you choose to use my magnet?
Um, and I mean, this side. Uh. This one. Yes.
Okay. Sorry. Um, on slide seven, you showed the the C-shaped magnet.
Um, and I was just wondering why it doesn't produce sort of any asymmetry that we'd have to worry about.
So, um, so it can. And and what you do is you you shape this iron here to, to make sure you take care of that.
So thank you. But that's useful, you know, if, if the G minus two ring were made out of this H dipole.
We couldn't put any of our detectors in there. Right.
So now, um, if you have the C opening toward the middle, now you can, you can put things like detectors or whatever into that.
So that's the reason you do that. Yep. Yeah. What is the purpose of a canted cosine theta configuration.
Um, it's well it's to produce a dipole.
We can also do other ones with this, but it's, it's uh um, sometimes when you have a conductor.
We'll get to this in a minute. You can't bend it too harshly, I guess too tightly.
And so here you can keep a nice big radius that you're bending the conductor on.
So that's one reason we have. Are you working on cosine then you.
One is you can support every turn with this structure.
So it's mechanical reinforcement.
Uh, you can put more mechanical reinforcement between the turns because you're spreading them out over a larger structure.
And the reason that's important, which I don't cover later in this talk, is, um, when you get higher and higher fields,
the conductors push on each other, and they can cause strain, which can can reduce the total current that they can carry.
So another way is to have really compact bending.
So we're looking at using them for some really small medical synchrotron.
Excellent I like this. Um this is. So the goal of these magnetic fields are to be as uniform as possible.
Right. Or are we. Okay. So how very a how like how actually have we been able to get it so far.
Like how uh, what's like I don't know, the uncertainty I guess.
Do you have any ideas? Um, so we look like when we report on our magnetic field quality that we get, we report on it in terms of, of of units.
So we're trying to get it in. Um, when you create a magnet, if you create a dipole, it's not going to be a perfect dipole.
You're going to get higher order multiples in that field.
So you adjust the the coil placement or the iron until you can reduce those higher order multiples to something that's,
uh, satisfactory for your experiment. If you're going through a magnet once, you don't care about that as much.
If you're going in a ring where you have an error and you're going to keep hitting that magnet,
and you're going to keep getting that error every time you hit it, then it's much more important.
So it kind of depends on the application. Can I ask a follow up on that?
Uh, is are we very much in the regime where it's like geometric effects from the coiling
and things like that that are causing those multi or like higher order components,
or are we in kind of like, do we care about manufacturing defects like that kind of smaller scale stuff.
Yeah some of that some of it comes in from manufacturing. Some of it comes in from um, our ability to control of the conductor when we're.
Yeah, impregnating it and things. So. Follow up on that to to what extent is like material defect, uh, a concern.
Um, it is, I would say probably more for performance than field quality, but.
All right. Shall we go on to conductors? Okay. You guys can still ask me questions later.
Just. Okay, so like I said, uh, except for the permanent magnets, we need conductors to produce these magnetic fields.
So our options are, uh, to use, uh, resistive or normal.
We use those kind of interchangeably, uh, conducting, uh, materials, typically copper.
And you can get, uh, current density out of that of maybe ten amps per millimeter squared if you have sufficient cooling.
So a lot of times if you see copper magnets, a cross-section of a copper magnet, you'll see, uh, this hole in the middle of that copper.
And that's because they're running, uh, cooling water through there.
As soon as you want to produce magnetic fields over about two Tesla, you really need to start looking at superconductors.
So we have two categories of superconductors. We have the low temperature superconductors.
These require um liquid helium um such as niobium, titanium,
magnesium Deborah I know IBM 310 or our newer class of well I guess new newish class of
high temperature superconductors which can operate maybe at liquid nitrogen levels.
So we have um, bismuth 2 to 1, 2 or 2 to do three or, uh, Remco, which I think you guys heard Sunday night.
Um, maybe I don't know if you've heard about it since, but okay, so Rebecca goes another option.
We'll talk about that in a minute. I don't think you're allowed to give a talk that mentioned superconductivity without putting this picture of,
um, Carolyn Holmes in there who first discovered,
uh, superconductivity when he was liquefying mercury and found that below a certain critical temperature,
the resistivity of this just dropped to zero. Right. So that's the critical temperature where below which were superconductor above were not.
So it's not just the critical temperature that's important for superconductor.
You also have um, some other uh, constraints that that you need to be below in order to, to remain superconducting.
So we have what we call a critical surface. And one axis is the temperature.
So that's that's still important.
But you also have um, an external magnetic field that's applied to that conductor and the current density that it's carrying.
So you want to live below this critical surface in order to remain superconducting.
As soon as you're above it, you're no longer superconducting. And we'll we'll talk about that in a bit.
And not only do you want to live below the surface, you want to live below the surface with some margin because,
uh, your temperature might increase for whatever reasons.
You know, your cooling plant has some issues or, um, you know, your conductor moves,
and that causes, um, some mechanical heating or some extra magnetic field or whatever.
Right. So you want to keep yourself below this critical surface, uh, to, to remain superconducting.
And here's just you don't have to look at this in detail, but here's just some critical surfaces, uh, for various superconductors.
So it's not like they all have the same critical surface, uh, that they're very different.
Okay. So I mentioned what happens when you're not superconducting.
Uh, we call that a quench. So this is a sudden transition, uh, from superconductor to normal.
Um, so when, uh, when you're superconducting, you're carrying a lot of current as soon as you're not,
your superconductor typically is a very poor conductor. So now you have a bunch of current going through something that's doesn't want to conduct.
And you, you, you do two things. You build up a voltage.
Right? Old Ohm's law when we're our resistance was zero essentially, and our voltage was as well.
Um, but also because now we have resistance, we're dissipating power into that section.
So we get this, this I squared. Ah. And so we're just heating up. Okay.
So one of the challenges, uh, for magnets, superconducting magnets is to protect them when they quench because they're going to quench.
It's ridiculous. I've heard it said that we should be able to produce magnets that don't quench.
We produce planes that don't crash, but we don't.
So, okay, so we have to have some safety margin and protection for when these things, uh, when these things quench.
Okay. So our goal is to minimize how much temperature gets dumped into that part of the conductor.
And then also, um, to, to provide a path for that, that current to go somewhere.
And to that the other thing is to detect it. Right. We need to know when this is happening so we can take that current and dump it somewhere else.
So it's not just heating up that conductor.
So, um, one way we do this quench detection is if we, if we have this superconductor with a current going through it,
and one section of it, uh, starts to go normal, um, along that superconductor, we can put these things called voltage taps.
And so these are just wires that are attached to the conductor. And we're looking at the voltage on those as we're running this magnet.
And as soon as some section of that starts, the voltage starts to go up.
Then we say, okay, we're probably quenching there. Let's dump the current into something else.
And that's, um, great if your quench propagation.
So how quickly this hot spot can move along the conductor.
If your hotspot doesn't move very quickly, um, you might not pick up that voltage because you're only making a very small resistive spot, right?
And so your voltage might not increase enough to, to, to pick it up.
Whereas if you're, if your normal um, section propagates really quickly,
then all of that section is going to have all that current and all that resistance,
and you're going to have a big voltage there that you that you can see, okay.
So the faster you can move your quench your quenched section along there, um, the easier it is to pick up and protect.
Um, right. So don't want to.
Yeah. We don't want to get the current or the temperature too hot there that we destroy that conductor.
I think that's all I wanted to say here. So. Yeah.
Quench propagation velocity. Okay.
Another important, um, you know, defining thing of a, of a superconductor is how much current is actually going to carry.
We usually talk about that in terms of current density. Um, so.
Each superconductor will have kind of this, what we call a critical current density.
That's the kind of the maximum current density that it can carry under,
under our conditions of being cold enough and not being in too large of a magnetic field.
But the superconductor on on its own or never just lives on its own.
I guess I should say, because of these things like quenches, right? We need to do something to it to help protect it.
So around the superconductor, we typically put some kind of stabilizer that might be aluminum or copper to help kind of, um, dissipate that current.
So that takes up space in our conductor cross-section.
We also often have to put some kind of insulation around it, so it doesn't short out to the surrounding coils or to the mandrel.
So that takes up some more of our kind of superconducting cross-section.
So what we really end up talking about is this engineering current density.
So that's the total, um, total current in the strand divided by the total area of the strand, because some of it gets eaten up by other things.
Right. So we really want to see like how much actually, um, can we put through a physical cross-section, not just this ideal superconductor.
Okay. So now on to some of these superconductors. So I mentioned niobium titanium.
This is one of the low temperature superconductors. This has been used in all superconducting accelerator magnets to date.
I put an asterisk there. We'll talk about that in a minute. Um, the first large scale accelerator application of this was at the Tevatron at Fermilab.
Um, the nice thing about niobium titanium is that it's pretty flexible and you can kind of go around smaller, um, bend angles.
It does something called or we fabricate it in a process called react than wine.
Once we we can make this superconductor, make it into a cable and then take it and start winding it around our mandrel.
Other ones we can we'll talk about that. Um, and the quench propagation on niobium type.
Uh, titanium is something on the order of meters per second. Right. So this quench is moving along right, like this.
And so we can pick that up pretty quickly and protect that magnet before it completely gets destroyed.
Um, but the critical temperatures down at ten Kelvin.
And really, we can only, uh, get up to about 15 Tesla for a critical field, but that means a really for a practical magnet limit.
We're looking at about eight Tesla. That's what we can reach with niobium titanium.
So how do we um, I guess I put this that we have these kind of funny structures here.
So, uh, this is, uh, a cable of niobium titanium wires.
This is a cable of niobium titanium extruded in an aluminum, um, outer conductor.
That cross-section is called a Rutherford cable.
And to get to that Rutherford cable, we first take, um, large tubes, fill them with our superconductor, large tubes of, say, copper.
Pack those all together and start drawing those down until we make these nice little strands that have, you know,
this little this little piece here has a bunch of little, bunch of little strands around it that have copper matrix in it.
And then we take that strand and we, um, decide how many of we need ten or whatever,
and we wrap them around a mandrel and then squeeze them into this rectangular shape.
Okay. So that's our Rutherford cable. So we have this twisted, um, twisted conductor made of multiple different strands.
If you kind of cut away, you can see the top layer is going like this and it's doing that on the bottom right.
And if you're thinking, well, that looks very familiar, it's because it is same shape as a Twizzler.
Right? This is exactly what's going on on a Twizzler. So the Rutherford Rutherford candy we have.
All right. So this is a plot of um, the critical current density and the applied magnetic fields, the field that this thing is living in.
So we want the critical current density to be as high as possible.
And we want to be able to live in a magnetic field that's as high as possible.
Right. So ultimately we want to be over here. But niobium titanium lives over here.
Right? So if we're trying to make super high field magnets, this is not the conductor for us.
Um, this one's not either, but I just want to throw it in because it's, um, it's a common,
uh, superconductor or not as common, but an interesting superconductor as well.
So magnesium diorite, this one actually has a higher critical temperature.
Um, but it's not as flexible as niobium titanium, but it can still be produced and then wound.
But you have to keep a larger radius on this. Um, and the nice thing is that because it has that higher critical temperature, we might be able to use,
you know, liquid or, uh, helium gas or something instead, uh, and gain some cryogenic cost savings.
Um, but this is better suited for non high field magnets applications such as motors, generators, MRI maybe transmission lines things like that.
But just to put it on the plot, here's our magnesium and.
You were getting way down here in the critical current, which is not what we want. Okay, so next up is niobium 310.
So this is also a low temperature superconductor.
Um, it's, uh, practical field limitation.
I put 15 I guess we could say 16 Tesla. Um, down at one point.
I don't know why that says 81.9 Kelvin. Um, this one, though, requires a reaction.
Heat treatment. So what does that mean? This cable you produce in strands.
Uh, in a similar way. Right. You still do that drawing down,
but then you have to wind this cable into its final configuration on a mandrel that then you can take and bake at 650 to 700 C,
which limits the types of minerals and insulating materials you can use for this conductor.
Right then. Um, it's worse than that.
It gets gets very brittle. It also changes shape when it is, um, when it's baked.
So you have to worry about, uh, kind of how you've wound it on there.
And, uh, let's see. Yes.
So I mentioned on an IBM titanium that, that that one was the only one used.
We actually have now produced, um, niobium,
three tin magnets that have been shipped over to CERN that are going to be used for the high Lumi LHC upgrade.
So that was the first one that shipped by I think we've shipped three now, or maybe one still over the Atlantic.
I'm not sure. All right. And so here's where now boom.
Uh, 310 then sits on our plot. So we're we're inching closer, but we're still not there.
Um, another one is, um, bismuth 2 to 1. Two. So this is, um, a pattern to process.
So here, the other ones we were putting in copper. This one you need to put in silver.
Um, this one is also wind and react, which is a pain.
But it gets even worse because the temperature is higher.
And you need to do this, uh, with a background pressure of argon and oxygen at some 50 to 100 atmosphere.
So? So it's even more complicated.
Um, so this high temperature and oxidation further limit the materials for insulation and the mantle that you can use.
But it does have a nice high TC. So that's good. Um,
it's only it's the only high temperature superconductor that we can get in this
kind of small round filament that we can then produce the Rutherford cables.
We like those Rutherford cables. We're used to working with them. So that's another plus.
Uh, but it's even more sensitive to strain the November 3rd ten.
So some some good and some bad. All right.
So here's where that lives though. So that's really nice. It's getting us it's getting us there.
All right. And then that brings us to to the last one I'm going to mention today, which is this, um, rare earth, a barium copper oxide.
That's hard to say too many times. So we just call it reco. That rare earth can be, uh, a couple of different things, but typically it's, uh, yttrium.
So the problem with reco is that the process to produce reco, um, is through this thin film deposition.
So you have to have a substrate and a stabilizer, and then you deposit this tiny, you know, 1 to 5 micron layer of reco and then another piece on top.
And so you get these tiny little tapes. Um, and another issue.
Uh oh, sorry. Let's say with the good stuff for a second. So another good thing is that it's, it's critical temperature is 92 Kelvin.
So that's good. That's that's above, you know, liquid helium. Um, and so we can do some maybe liquid free cooling on that.
But the one of the main issues that it's got a slow, uh, quench propagation.
So it's quench propagation, there's something like this, right.
Compared to the niobium. Titanium. Right. So this is very hard to detect, which means it's very hard to protect.
So we can easily burn these things up. Um, another issue is that it's got this nice optic, uh, critical current.
So if your field is not lined up with a certain plane of the crystal structure in there,
you're going to get less, uh, current density than if your field is, you know, perpendicular, whatever.
So it wants to be lined up. Sorry, parallel, not perpendicular.
So that kind of is something you have to think about in your design of your magnet.
How is this conductor going to be oriented with respect to the field that you're producing?
Um, it's also currently very expensive, but the cost is coming down because there's a large interest in this from fusion.
So you can make this uh, co in kind of several different formats.
So one is this and I honestly don't know how to say this ruble it's a German name okay.
We're gonna say that's how it goes. The cable. Um, that is these the kind of tapes that kind of have this zigzag back and forth, um, shape,
and then you have to kind of weave these together to get the similar properties of that twisted Rutherford cable.
That's that's difficult. Um, so that's one option.
Another option is to take, um, take a bunch of these tapes and kind of helix wind them around a central mandrel.
A. Central, um, core. So that's the conductor on a round core, which we just called cork.
So the cork cables, uh, like I said, are these multilayer helix wound, um, tapes.
And they've been, you know, improving slowly, mechanically, uh, the mechanical performance in recent years.
So this is just a cross-section of those.
And this is cork, um, cable being used as one of the layers for this canted cosine.
This is like the inner layer of the canted cosine with this cork cable. That's that's at Berkeley.
And then another version of this is called uh the Viper Viper RGB Co Viper cable.
I don't know exactly how we, uh, talk about it, but this is, uh, being developed over, um, at MIT, uh, by Zach Hartwig.
So in this arrangement, it's kind of dark and hard to see in here, but there is, um,
yeah, there's there's an inner copper mandrel that has four channels carved out of it.
And in those channels there, uh, stacked RGB co tapes.
Okay. And then that channel also spirals.
Okay. So this is again getting that, uh, transposition like you got with the Rutherford Cable, like, um,
so this is kind of yeah, zoom in of that little channel, which is, uh, unfortunately hard to see.
So this is good because you get this, you know, you can have this this cooling spot in the middle.
You can run, you know, liquid nitrogen or helium, whatever, whatever you're deciding to use there.
You got this copper structure that does help with stability. Um, but but this is a huge cross-section for, uh, for this, these little tapes.
And you can't really been this super, super tight. So we have a bend radius restriction, um, with, with, uh, Remco as well.
Okay. But the nice thing about Remco is it really starts to get us into that section where we want.
So that's why we talk about Remco as being so promising for these, um, high temperature, high field magnets.
Okay. I mentioned this bending radius limitation.
It's also called, uh, a strain limitation.
So if you look at um, the applied strain and the current that you can still kind of carry when that's happening,
that could be from bending or it can be from if these are in contact with each
other and there's a high magnetic field and they're pressing on each other, you can get strain that way.
So um, the niobium 310, the IBM tie kind of comes out here.
Like I said, that one's pretty pretty ductile. But the other one is quirk that really gets you out there.
So that's nice. What? Okay, so then how are we doing?
Almost over. So, magnets, uh, for the muon collider.
I'm going to go through this kind of quickly just because, like I said, you're going to see this again.
Um, two days from now, but, uh, hopefully you've seen this 100 times already, and and you know what I'm pointing out here.
So this is the front end where we have, uh, the target and the decay and capture solenoids.
So the big, um, issue there is we want to produce this magnetic field in that section.
So this is going up to, you know, 20 Tesla and then decaying back down to about two Tesla.
So, um, that's high field, but it's also a high radiation and heat environment,
which means that the target needs to live inside a large heat and radiation shield,
which means the magnet has to be around that, which means we really need a large bore.
So now we're trying to produce a large magnetic field in large bore, which is difficult.
So that's the the main complication here.
Uh, the remainder of these maybe not so bad because you get down to these reasonable fields in the next section are problem,
uh, in the cooling is that we have, um, first of all, we need a lot of these cooling cells.
Um, and these cells, uh, I think was mentioned also many times consists of these magnets and, uh, cavities and absorbers.
But the problem with the magnets here is that if you look at one of these cells, you have a magnetic field going in one direction.
And then by the other side of this cell, it's going in the other direction.
So these solenoids are, um, opposing each other.
So you're getting these huge repulsive forces. Right?
So now not only do we have all these other conditions of needing to be superconducting and have radiation,
but now we're also having these huge forces just between themselves, right.
So that's a problem there. And there's um, like I said, a lot of cells and there's um, that can be divided into 12 different cell types.
And so here's just kind of the, the critical current or the engineering, sorry current density we need for these.
So if you can see these are all pretty low. So these um in terms of the superconductor this is not so hard.
It's just the mechanical uh stresses and things like that that make this section difficult in the uh, final cooling section of, of of this part.
Uh, we have this, um, solenoid that needs to be something like 40 Tesla.
So ideally they say they want it to be 60 Tesla. Right. So, um, but with a small bore, so relatively small bore.
So it's not as bad, but, uh, so it's long, really high field.
Um, and there's, you know, some proposals that people say they think can, can achieve this, uh, today or soon.
So if you take on make 52 or sorry, 56 Repco pancake coils, there's just little tiny solenoids essentially stacked on top of each other.
Um, and assume a current density of about 650 amps from a millimeter squared.
That's okay. Um, they say that this is within reach of our current tape performance.
But then again, you have all these external fields and forces and things that you still have to consider.
Oops, sorry. Um, okay. So that's on the solenoids.
So, um, if we look at, uh, a plot of the solenoid fields and, uh,
inner diameter of those solenoid superconducting solenoid coils that we have today, that's what this, these blue and green dots are.
We can kind of draw the state of the art, uh, line. And if you look at the, um, 60 muon cooling channel, those magnets are all pretty much under that.
So we can achieve those. Right? Those are the ones that had that low engineering curtain density.
If we look at the target capture decay, that 20 Tesla ones here,
but then as we decrease in field, we can kind of get into a region where we can produce those.
So that's not so bad. Uh, but then we have this huge outlier up here and that's that final cooling, um, that 40 Tesla cooling, uh, solenoid.
So that's kind of up here and I would say still beyond state of the art.
I just want to point out that we do have experience with large solenoids.
So yesterday.
Yes, yesterday, um, we moved this gigantic, uh, magnet for the Moody experiment down into into the hall so you can kind of see the bore of this.
I can stand in the bore of this. I'm about five feet. Um, this, uh, experiment has, you know, 66 superconducting coils.
They're not all, um, nicely arranged. So they do have a lot of forces on each other.
So we do have some experience of trying to, you know, kind of hold these magnets that really want to align and pull in together, uh, apart.
Uh, this magnet here, this is 11 superconductors. Uh, somebody who's about six foot can stand on the board of that one.
So that's pretty impressive. But the fields are only about one Tesla.
So. So yeah. So we go from about four Tesla down to one Tesla.
Um, but yeah just a a side note because that just happened yesterday.
So and this is just looking down the uh, so you can see all the conductors.
Niobium titanium impregnated with an epoxy.
Those are all the coils. Okay. Um, other magnet challenges as we continue down the line here, we get to the, uh, accelerator ring.
So in the accelerator ring, we need to have, um, normal conducting magnets.
1.8 Tesla. Okay, we can do that. Uh, superconducting magnets, less than ten Tesla.
Yeah, we can do that. But the problem is we want to ramp those normal conducting magnets really fast.
And so that's not something that, um, we, we fully can do yet.
Um, because we have to deal with, uh, the power needed to go in and out of those magnets and also the amount of heating
that you're going to get in those resistive magnets as you're changing the flux, right.
The eddy current heating. Also, the aperture in this section is just kind of rectangular.
So which is fine. You know, we can make the normal conducting magnets rectangular.
And then we would not make our probably our superconducting magnets in our
typical cosine theta because that doesn't really match up with the rectangle. So we would have to use something else.
So one proposal is that a simple, um, you know, high temperature superconductor race track,
kind of that simple coil that I showed you for a dipole might be, um, something that works out here.
So that doesn't seem too bad.
Um, and then the collider ring has, um, you know, these, these arc magnets and then these interaction region quadrupole magnets.
And in that section, we need to have, uh, 16 Tesla, um, of the bending and 20 Tesla in the interaction region.
And they also need to be the arc ones or uh, I think now they're deciding that they need to be, uh, combined function.
So there are some kind of proposals how to make a combined function, uh, magnet that can that can reach this.
But right now these are also beyond state of the art.
Okay. And of course, um, because they have large radiation doses in these sections,
you got to have shielding, which increases the force size and that complicates everything.
So okay. So I'm about to the end here.
So yeah. Okay. So my summary um now we have these magnet needs for muon collider.
You're going to hear about them a lot uh coming up. But this is kind of a summary here.
So you can kind of keep those straight. Um, this is a very challenging but exciting time for muon collider magnets.
And I also want to say that magnet technology is a huge topic.
And I barely scratched the surface right there.
There are whole, uh, you know, week long, two week long classes on this at the, uh, US particle Accelerator School and the Certain Accelerator school.
And I encourage you, um, to look at these sites. These are great resources for, for lectures.
So I think with that that's it. Yeah. Thank you very.
Questions or comments. Oh yeah, I forgot to stop.
Sorry. After the connectors. This one. Hi.
Um, hi. I was wondering if you could give me a little more intuition, uh,
for the kind of comparing stuff like 15 Tesla is very high for an accelerator magnet.
And then you mentioned in the beginning you can achieve 750 Tesla if you're okay with blowing up your magnet.
Um, and so like, I understand, uh, on the one hand, of course, if your mind is going to get blown up, that's a lot less constraint.
But is there an intuition for like why that's like two orders of magnitude, uh, higher field strength when we do that?
Well, yeah. So the field strength is about field density in a, in a volume essentially.
Right. So if you can kind of compress that field into a tiny little volume, you can get very high fields.
So I think that's maybe it's not useful for us, but I you know, we can't be compacting our fields in the same way.
Yeah. Might ask a question.
Oh I see. All right. Okay, I'll ask a question first.
I don't know if you know the answer to this, because it's kind of. Anyway, it's about super superconducting.
So I kind of understand that we don't really understand the fundamental physics of BTS, but I was surprised and interested.
This is what another manga person told me earlier this summer. I didn't even know that. Okay, great.
That aside, I saw that you were describing, um, some materials where they can tolerate quite a lot of high temperature but very little current.
And can you give me any intuition for, like, what about that material at the sort of microscopic particle level would make it that
make it so that current was more likely to make it quenched than a higher temperature?
Because I kind of think of all of these as like an energy thing, and I don't. So I don't really understand what would do that.
Um, yeah. I don't I don't know if I can answer that very well.
I have my own like, internal model of what's going on, but.
Okay. Oh we have. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, yeah.
Just a comment. Just on the side with a critical surface, right?
Yeah. Basically, you have less energy, that you have less energy gap to breaking apart the Cooper pairs as you get higher in temperature.
So you can carry less current because they're not pinned as well as some.
Scholars. Like man museum diver.
Right. Yeah. Yeah. So it has to do with the strength of the superconducting gap.
That's the critical temperature.
But always for every conductor, the closer you are to the critical temperature, the lower your current density is for every conductor.
So on this plot, they all go down as temperature goes up high.
Right. So I was thinking of, uh, um, magnesium di boron.
Yes. Okay. Why is that one like that? So you can operate it like a higher temperature, but you can't get to the,
you know, so we operate all of our magnets in the vortex state, the next phase,
and they're you're having to lock the magnetic field in place at defects in the
conductor and how well you can actually get the defects in the final material.
So that's a engineering problem of manufacturing your conductor.
Like in Ravka we actually sprinkle in dust of zirconia oxide to pin the conductor where we want it.
Okay. Yeah. Flux pinning is a whole other.
Uh, can you say a few things about the, um, challenge of ramping the magnets in the collider?
Where why is the ramping a problem? Yeah, well, from previous lecture, we know ramping is problem, but even more in terms of,
like, where are we in solving them and how far are we from where we needed to be.
That that's a good question. I think as far as I understand, I think that's more of a power supply issue for the ramping.
But but yes, I, I'm not on that side of things.
But that's a great question to ask Friday to both of Magnolia's speakers.
Um, cool. Uh, yeah. Thank you so much for the great talk.
I was wondering if you could say a few words about some of the most promising methods in quench detection and, uh, sort of.
Yeah. Quench management right now. Okay.
So I will say that that is not my area. Um, but but there's a lot of different techniques.
Do you want to talk about it? There's fiber optics. Okay. I mean, if you search right now, you can really talk about what's what.
What is your what are you working on? What particular method are you working on?
I'm going on the my filer. Okay. Um, do you have a specific question there.
So you can just describe what that is if you want that general in a quench in general.
No, no. By filer. Okay.
Um, so the main problem with the quench is you have too much energy at a very, uh, specific point in the conductor, in the entire magnet.
But if you figure out some method to get the energy to dissipate across the entire magnet, you're not in trouble anymore.
So what we are doing is using a specific type of coil arrangement to get, um,
high frequency oscillations so that we cross the current density limit like in the critical surface.
If you cross the current limit as fast as you can multiple times per second, you can deposit an insane amount of energy into the entire magnet.
Um, instead of just one spot. So now you're essentially quenching the entire magnet safely.
So that's one method.
Another method is you can put heaters on your magnet and then fire the heaters as soon as you detect a quench to try to bring it all up.
Similar thing to try to bring it out quickly. Um, there's other ways of trying to detect it,
where you run fiber optics and try to try to pick up changes in your fiber optic signals to see if you've got a quench.
Um, there's there's a lot of different techniques. This is not my area. Thank you.
Hi. Um, really stupid question. So the most that I've dealt with a solenoid is make one of my own with a new and, uh, insulated piece of wire.
Yeah, that makes sense to me, but over here, it looks like the cables don't have any insulation on them.
Uh, so some times they try to do it without insulation, but some other ones do.
Right. You can definitely take, you know, if you just make a regular conducting solenoid, it's, uh,
copper, but it does have like a thin film on it that you this insulating thin film, right.
Um, but you can also take superconductor and put an insulator around it and wind.
So in our in the case of our magnet community magnets, they're all superconducting solenoids.
They all each winding has an insulation layer around it.
They're all one, um, wound in a big, you know, solenoid.
But they all have insulation from each other and from ground. So there's different things that they're drawing.
But you. There's one there.
You showed a slide on the critical current degradation versus stream of the different tapes.
Mhm. Do you have a sense how Viper compares to optimize court.
I do not. Um I, I don't know.
I don't know if I've seen that data but it would be good to edit this. So yeah I should look at that.
And don't see any. Oh there's one. Okay. Okay.
So this is uh, slide 37.
You talked about uh, basically the the maybe it's 38 or 30.
No. Okay. Either way, it was the slide where you talked about the massive forces, uh, between different, uh, magnets basically.
Yeah. So, okay, so it is this one can can you give a sense of, uh, of exactly how big those forces are?
I don't have them on top of my head, but they are mentioned in the, like, muon Collider reports.
So I just don't have. Yeah. Awesome. Thanks. If somebody else knows off the top of their head with those forces, there's tons.
Literal. Literal tons. Okay. Okay, well, I think we have, uh, a couple more announcements from Carrie, but let's, uh, thank, uh.
Carrie. Yeah.
